docs/content/add-plugins/s3.md, before:

# S3

In order to work with images in Medusa, you need a file service plugin responsible for hosting. Following this guide will allow you to upload images to AWS S3.

### Before you start

At this point, you should have an instance of our store engine running. If not, we have a [full guide](https://docs.medusajs.com/tutorial/set-up-your-development-environment) for setting up your local environment.

### Set up AWS

#### Create an S3 bucket

In the AWS console navigate to S3 and create a bucket for your images. Make sure to uncheck "Block _all_ public access".

Additionally, you need to add a policy to your bucket, that will allow public access to objects that are uploaded. Navigate to the permissions tab of your bucket and add the following policy:

```shell=
{
  "Id": "Policy1397632521960",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "Stmt1397633323327",
      "Action": [
        "s3:GetObject"
      ],
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::YOUR-BUCKET-NAME/*",
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": [
          "*"
        ]
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

Be aware, that this will allow for anyone to acces your bucket. Avoid storing sensitive data.

#### Generate access keys

Navigate to the IAM section of your AWS console and perform the following steps:

- Add a new user with programmatic access
- Add the existing **AmazonS3FullAccess** policy to the user
- Submit the details

Upon successfull creation of the user, you are presented with an **Access key ID** and a **Secret access key**. Note both of them down for later use.

### Installation

First, install the plugin using your preferred package manager:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install medusa-file-s3
```

Then configure your `medusa-config.js` to include the plugin alongside the required options:

```=javascript
{
    resolve: `medusa-file-s3`,
    options: {
        s3_url: "https://s3-guide-test.s3.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com",
        bucket: "test",
        region: "eu-west-1"
        access_key_id: "YOUR-ACCESS-KEY",
        secret_access_key: "YOUR-SECRET-KEY",
    },
},
```

In the above options, an `s3_url` is included. The url has the following format:

```shell=
https://[bucket].s3.[region].amazonaws.com
```

The two access keys in the options are the ones created in the previous section.

:::tip

 Make sure to use an environment variable for the secret key in a live environment.

:::

### Try it out

Finally, run your Medusa server alongside our admin system to try out your new file service. Upon editing or creating products, you can now upload thumbnails and images, that are stored in an AWS S3 bucket.

Commit message:

docs: last storage plugin is default - s3 (#1950)
* docs: storage plugin default

add caution that only last storage plugin will be used

* Update docs/content/add-plugins/s3.md

Co-authored-by: Shahed Nasser <shahednasser@gmail.com>

Co-authored-by: Shahed Nasser <shahednasser@gmail.com>

docs/content/add-plugins/s3.md, after:

# S3

In order to work with images in Medusa, you need a file service plugin responsible for hosting. Following this guide will allow you to upload images to AWS S3.

### Before you start

At this point, you should have an instance of our store engine running. If not, we have a [full guide](https://docs.medusajs.com/tutorial/set-up-your-development-environment) for setting up your local environment.

### Set up AWS

#### Create an S3 bucket

In the AWS console navigate to S3 and create a bucket for your images. Make sure to uncheck "Block _all_ public access".

Additionally, you need to add a policy to your bucket, that will allow public access to objects that are uploaded. Navigate to the permissions tab of your bucket and add the following policy:

```shell=
{
  "Id": "Policy1397632521960",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "Stmt1397633323327",
      "Action": [
        "s3:GetObject"
      ],
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::YOUR-BUCKET-NAME/*",
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": [
          "*"
        ]
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

Be aware, that this will allow for anyone to acces your bucket. Avoid storing sensitive data.

#### Generate access keys

Navigate to the IAM section of your AWS console and perform the following steps:

- Add a new user with programmatic access
- Add the existing **AmazonS3FullAccess** policy to the user
- Submit the details

Upon successfull creation of the user, you are presented with an **Access key ID** and a **Secret access key**. Note both of them down for later use.

### Installation

First, install the plugin using your preferred package manager:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install medusa-file-s3
```

Then configure your `medusa-config.js` to include the plugin alongside the required options:

```=javascript
{
    resolve: `medusa-file-s3`,
    options: {
        s3_url: "https://s3-guide-test.s3.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com",
        bucket: "test",
        region: "eu-west-1"
        access_key_id: "YOUR-ACCESS-KEY",
        secret_access_key: "YOUR-SECRET-KEY",
    },
},
```

In the above options, an `s3_url` is included. The url has the following format:

```shell=
https://[bucket].s3.[region].amazonaws.com
```

The two access keys in the options are the ones created in the previous section.

:::tip

 Make sure to use an environment variable for the secret key in a live environment.

:::

:::caution

If you have multiple storage plugins configured, the last plugin declared in the `medusa-config.js` file will be used.

:::

### Try it out

Finally, run your Medusa server alongside our admin system to try out your new file service. Upon editing or creating products, you can now upload thumbnails and images, that are stored in an AWS S3 bucket.
