docs/content/user-guide/price-lists/import.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Import Prices

In this document, you’ll learn how to import prices into your Medusa store.

## Overview

To import prices, you must have the prices in a CSV file. You can see a template of the CSV file during the import process.

:::caution

When you import prices into a price list, it removes existing prices and adds new prices.

:::

---

## Import Prices into a Price List

To import prices into a price list:

1. Go to the price list’s details page.
2. In the Prices section, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
3. Click on “Import price list” from the dropdown.
4. In the new window:
    1. If you’re unsure of what the CSV file’s format must be like, you can download a template CSV file by clicking the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999458/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/fhRqHS3_kwmafj.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999472/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/HdVNMNy_qrk8ez.png" alt="download" /> icon.
    2. To upload the CSV file you want to import prices from, either:
        1. Drag and drop the file into the dashed box;
        2. Or click on the dashed box and choose the file you want to import the prices from.
    3. After you upload the CSV file:
        1. You can check the number of prices to be added above the uploaded file’s name.
        2. You can remove the file you choose by clicking the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon.
5. Once you’re done choosing a file to import prices from, click on the Import List button.

This starts the import process. Based on the number of prices you’re importing, it can take some time.

:::note

If you face any errors or difficulties, please contact your technical support team as this could be an issue in the storage integration used.

:::

### Check Import Status

To check the status of the import:

1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999016/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/mWhpxNX_xteuos.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999044/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/tE8LOXk_puyrib.png" alt="bell" /> icon at the top right of the page.
2. Find the price import, which should be the latest item on the list.

If a loading indicator is showing, then the import process is still in progress.

If the import is done, you should see the text “Import of prices is done.”

Once the import is done, you should find the news prices on the price list’s details page.

---

## Cancel Import

:::info

You can only cancel an unfinished prices import.

:::

To cancel a price import:

1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999016/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/mWhpxNX_xteuos.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999044/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/tE8LOXk_puyrib.png" alt="bell" /> icon at the top right of the page.
2. Find the import you want to cancel.
3. Click on the cancel button.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/price-lists/import.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
description: 'This user guide explains how to import prices to a price list on the Medusa admin.'
addHowToData: true
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Import Prices

In this document, you’ll learn how to import prices into your Medusa store.

## Overview

To import prices, you must have the prices in a CSV file. You can see a template of the CSV file during the import process.

:::caution

When you import prices into a price list, it removes existing prices and adds new prices.

:::

---

## Import Prices into a Price List

To import prices into a price list:

1. Go to the price list’s details page.
2. In the Prices section, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
3. Click on “Import price list” from the dropdown.
4. In the new window:
    1. If you’re unsure of what the CSV file’s format must be like, you can download a template CSV file by clicking the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999458/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/fhRqHS3_kwmafj.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999472/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/HdVNMNy_qrk8ez.png" alt="download" /> icon.
    2. To upload the CSV file you want to import prices from, either:
        1. Drag and drop the file into the dashed box;
        2. Or click on the dashed box and choose the file you want to import the prices from.
    3. After you upload the CSV file:
        1. You can check the number of prices to be added above the uploaded file’s name.
        2. You can remove the file you choose by clicking the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon.
5. Once you’re done choosing a file to import prices from, click on the Import List button.

This starts the import process. Based on the number of prices you’re importing, it can take some time.

:::note

If you face any errors or difficulties, please contact your technical support team as this could be an issue in the storage integration used.

:::

### Check Import Status

To check the status of the import:

1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999016/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/mWhpxNX_xteuos.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999044/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/tE8LOXk_puyrib.png" alt="bell" /> icon at the top right of the page.
2. Find the price import, which should be the latest item on the list.

If a loading indicator is showing, then the import process is still in progress.

If the import is done, you should see the text “Import of prices is done.”

Once the import is done, you should find the news prices on the price list’s details page.

---

## Cancel Import

:::info

You can only cancel an unfinished prices import.

:::

To cancel a price import:

1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999016/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/mWhpxNX_xteuos.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999044/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/tE8LOXk_puyrib.png" alt="bell" /> icon at the top right of the page.
2. Find the import you want to cancel.
3. Click on the cancel button.
