docs/content/user-guide/price-lists/manage.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Price Lists

In this document, you’ll learn how to create, update, and delete price lists and their related information.

## Create a Price List

To create a price list:

1. Go to the Pricing page.
2. Click on the “Add price list” button at the top right.

This opens the form to create the price list in a new window. The form is split into different sections.

### Price List Type

In this section, choose the type of the price list. It can be either a Sale or an Override.

### General

In this section, enter the name and description of the price list. Both fields are required.

### Configuration

In this section, you can choose some optional configurations that determine how the price list will be applied:

1. To specify the start or end dates:
    1. Toggle the “Price overrides has a start date” or “Price overrides has an expiry date” fields.
    2. Choose the date and time.
2. To specify customer groups that this price list will be applied for:
    1. Toggle the “Customer availability” field.
    2. In the Customer Groups field, choose at least one customer group.

### Prices

In this section, you must choose at least one product and specify the prices you want to apply to at least one of its variants.

1. To add product prices:
    1. Click on the “Add Products Manually” button.
    2. Choose at least one product from the list.
    3. Click the Save button. The products will then be seen under the Prices section.
    4. For each product you added:
        1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999131/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1hL8NiW_lqmjcq.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999150/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/8LtkPqW_jyqz5i.png" alt="plus" /> icon at its right.
        2. To add the same price for all variants:
            1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to any of the variants.
            2. Choose “Edit Prices” from the dropdown.
            3. In the new window, choose the “Apply on all variants” option.
            4. Enter the price for each currency.
            5. Click on the “Save and close” button.
        3. To add a price for each variant:
            1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to a variant.
            2. Choose “Edit Prices” from the dropdown.
            3. In the new window, choose the “Apply overrides on selected variants” option.
            4. Choose the variants that you want to apply the current pricing to.
            5. Enter the price for each currency.
            6. Click on the “Save and close” button.
        4. To remove a variant from the price list:
            1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the variant.
            2. Click on the Remove from List button.
2. To remove products from the prices list:
    1. Click on the “Add Products Manually” button.
    2. Uncheck the products you previously added and want to remove.
    3. Click on the Save button.

### Save the Price List

To save the price list you can either:

1. Click the “Save as draft” button to save the price list without publishing it;
2. Or click the “Publish price list” button to save and publish the price list.

---

## View Price List Details

To view a price list’s details:

1. Go to the Pricing page.
2. Click on the price list you want to view.

---

## Change Price List Status

:::info

Publishing a price list makes it and its prices available to customers. Unpublishing a price list makes it and its prices unavailable to customers.

:::

To change a price list’s status:

1. Go to the Pricing page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the price list.
3. Based on the current status, click on the Unpublish or Publish links in the dropdown to change the status.

---

## Edit Price List’s Configurations

To edit a price list’s information and configurations:

1. Go to the price list’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon in the first section.
3. Choose “Edit price list details”.
4. This opens a form in a new window that has the [same sections as the Create Price List form](#create-a-price-list), except for the Prices section. You can edit the price list’s general information, customer groups, and start and end dates.
5. Once you’re done making changes, click on the Save changes button.

---

## Manage Prices

### Add Product Prices

To add new product prices:

1. Go to the price list’s details page.
2. In the Prices section, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
3. Click on “Edit manually” in the dropdown.
4. This opens a new window with a form similar to the [Prices section in the Create form](#prices). You can search for or manually add products.
5. Once you’re done, click on the “Save changes” button.

### Edit a Product’s Prices

To edit the prices in the price list:

1. Go to the price list’s details page.
2. Find the product you want to edit in the Prices section.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to it.
4. Choose “Edit prices” from the dropdown.
5. In the new window:
    1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999131/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1hL8NiW_lqmjcq.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999150/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/8LtkPqW_jyqz5i.png" alt="plus" /> icon next to the product’s name to expand the list of variants.
    2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999494/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/RxZhOoi_sismq2.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999509/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/iKh5Q7h_iuwp7r.png" alt="right arrow" /> icon next to the variant you want to edit.
    3. Edit the prices of the variant for each currency.
    4. Once you’re done, click on the “Save and close” button.
6. Once you’re done editing the product’s prices, click on the Save button.

### Delete a Product’s Prices

:::warning

Deleting a product’s prices in a price list cannot be undone.

:::

To delete all the prices of a product in a price list:

1. Go to the price list’s details page.
2. Find the product you want to edit in the Prices section.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to it.
4. Click on “Remove product” in the dropdown.

---

## Delete Price List

:::caution

Deleting a price list cannot be undone. Prices defined in the price list will no longer be available for the customers.

:::

To delete a price list:

1. Go to the Pricing page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the price list you want to delete.
3. Click on Delete in the dropdown.
4. Confirm deleting the price list by clicking the “Yes, confirm” button in the pop-up.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/price-lists/manage.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
description: 'This user guide explains how to manage price lists on the Medusa admin. Learn how to create, edit, and delete price lists.'
addHowToData: true
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Price Lists

In this document, you’ll learn how to create, update, and delete price lists and their related information.

## Create a Price List

To create a price list:

1. Go to the Pricing page.
2. Click on the “Add price list” button at the top right.

This opens the form to create the price list in a new window. The form is split into different sections.

### Price List Type

In this section, choose the type of the price list. It can be either a Sale or an Override.

### General

In this section, enter the name and description of the price list. Both fields are required.

### Configuration

In this section, you can choose some optional configurations that determine how the price list will be applied:

1. To specify the start or end dates:
    1. Toggle the “Price overrides has a start date” or “Price overrides has an expiry date” fields.
    2. Choose the date and time.
2. To specify customer groups that this price list will be applied for:
    1. Toggle the “Customer availability” field.
    2. In the Customer Groups field, choose at least one customer group.

### Prices

In this section, you must choose at least one product and specify the prices you want to apply to at least one of its variants.

1. To add product prices:
    1. Click on the “Add Products Manually” button.
    2. Choose at least one product from the list.
    3. Click the Save button. The products will then be seen under the Prices section.
    4. For each product you added:
        1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999131/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1hL8NiW_lqmjcq.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999150/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/8LtkPqW_jyqz5i.png" alt="plus" /> icon at its right.
        2. To add the same price for all variants:
            1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to any of the variants.
            2. Choose “Edit Prices” from the dropdown.
            3. In the new window, choose the “Apply on all variants” option.
            4. Enter the price for each currency.
            5. Click on the “Save and close” button.
        3. To add a price for each variant:
            1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to a variant.
            2. Choose “Edit Prices” from the dropdown.
            3. In the new window, choose the “Apply overrides on selected variants” option.
            4. Choose the variants that you want to apply the current pricing to.
            5. Enter the price for each currency.
            6. Click on the “Save and close” button.
        4. To remove a variant from the price list:
            1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the variant.
            2. Click on the Remove from List button.
2. To remove products from the prices list:
    1. Click on the “Add Products Manually” button.
    2. Uncheck the products you previously added and want to remove.
    3. Click on the Save button.

### Save the Price List

To save the price list you can either:

1. Click the “Save as draft” button to save the price list without publishing it;
2. Or click the “Publish price list” button to save and publish the price list.

---

## View Price List Details

To view a price list’s details:

1. Go to the Pricing page.
2. Click on the price list you want to view.

---

## Change Price List Status

:::info

Publishing a price list makes it and its prices available to customers. Unpublishing a price list makes it and its prices unavailable to customers.

:::

To change a price list’s status:

1. Go to the Pricing page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the price list.
3. Based on the current status, click on the Unpublish or Publish links in the dropdown to change the status.

---

## Edit Price List’s Configurations

To edit a price list’s information and configurations:

1. Go to the price list’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon in the first section.
3. Choose “Edit price list details”.
4. This opens a form in a new window that has the [same sections as the Create Price List form](#create-a-price-list), except for the Prices section. You can edit the price list’s general information, customer groups, and start and end dates.
5. Once you’re done making changes, click on the Save changes button.

---

## Manage Prices

### Add Product Prices

To add new product prices:

1. Go to the price list’s details page.
2. In the Prices section, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
3. Click on “Edit manually” in the dropdown.
4. This opens a new window with a form similar to the [Prices section in the Create form](#prices). You can search for or manually add products.
5. Once you’re done, click on the “Save changes” button.

### Edit a Product’s Prices

To edit the prices in the price list:

1. Go to the price list’s details page.
2. Find the product you want to edit in the Prices section.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to it.
4. Choose “Edit prices” from the dropdown.
5. In the new window:
    1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999131/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1hL8NiW_lqmjcq.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999150/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/8LtkPqW_jyqz5i.png" alt="plus" /> icon next to the product’s name to expand the list of variants.
    2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999494/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/RxZhOoi_sismq2.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999509/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/iKh5Q7h_iuwp7r.png" alt="right arrow" /> icon next to the variant you want to edit.
    3. Edit the prices of the variant for each currency.
    4. Once you’re done, click on the “Save and close” button.
6. Once you’re done editing the product’s prices, click on the Save button.

### Delete a Product’s Prices

:::warning

Deleting a product’s prices in a price list cannot be undone.

:::

To delete all the prices of a product in a price list:

1. Go to the price list’s details page.
2. Find the product you want to edit in the Prices section.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to it.
4. Click on “Remove product” in the dropdown.

---

## Delete Price List

:::caution

Deleting a price list cannot be undone. Prices defined in the price list will no longer be available for the customers.

:::

To delete a price list:

1. Go to the Pricing page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the price list you want to delete.
3. Click on Delete in the dropdown.
4. Confirm deleting the price list by clicking the “Yes, confirm” button in the pop-up.
