docs/content/user-guide/discounts/index.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Discounts Overview

In this document, you’ll get an overview of the customer listing page and everything you can do with it.

## Overview

You can create discounts of different types in Medusa that customers use on checkout:

- **Percentage Discounts** to deduct a percentage of the total amount of an order.
- **Fixed Discounts** to deduct a fixed amount from the total amount of an order.
- **Free Shipping** to override the delivery amount of an order and make it free.

Discounts are in the form of a code that your customers can use. You can set options for a discount such as a start and an end date.

You can also specify conditions for discounts, such as applying them for specific products or shipping options.

---

## View List of Discounts

You can view the list of available discounts in your ecommerce store by clicking on Discounts from the sidebar menu.

In the list, you can see discount details such as the code, description, amount, and status.

---

## Learn More About Discounts

- [Create a Discount](./create.mdx)
- [Manage Discounts](./manage.mdx)

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/discounts/index.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
description: 'Medusa admin allows merchants to manage discounts. Merchants can create discounts and manage their conditions.'
---

# Discounts Overview

In this document, you’ll get an overview of the customer listing page and everything you can do with it.

## Overview

You can create discounts of different types in Medusa that customers use on checkout:

- **Percentage Discounts** to deduct a percentage of the total amount of an order.
- **Fixed Discounts** to deduct a fixed amount from the total amount of an order.
- **Free Shipping** to override the delivery amount of an order and make it free.

Discounts are in the form of a code that your customers can use. You can set options for a discount such as a start and an end date.

You can also specify conditions for discounts, such as applying them for specific products or shipping options.

---

## View List of Discounts

You can view the list of available discounts in your ecommerce store by clicking on Discounts from the sidebar menu.

In the list, you can see discount details such as the code, description, amount, and status.

---

## Learn More About Discounts

- [Create a Discount](./create.mdx)
- [Manage Discounts](./manage.mdx)
