docs/content/user-guide/discounts/manage.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Discounts

In this document, you’ll learn how to manage discounts including editing and deleting a discount.

## View Discount Details

To view a discount’s details:

1. Go to Discounts.
2. Click on the discount you want to view its details

This opens the discount’s details page.

## Edit a Discount

### Change Discount Status

:::info

Changing a discount’s status to published makes it available for customers to use. Changing a discount’s status to draft makes it unavailable for customers to use.

:::

To change a discount’s status:

1. Go to the discount details page.
2. At the top right of the first section, you’ll see the status of the discount (for example, Published). Click on it.
3. Choose from the dropdown the opposite status (for example, Draft)

### Edit General Information

To edit a discount’s general information:

1. Go to the discount details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the first section.
3. Click on “Edit general information” from the dropdown.
4. In the new window, you can edit any of the discount information.
5. Once done, click on the Save button.

---

## Manage Discount Configurations

### Edit Configurations

To edit a discount’s configuration:

1. Go to the discount details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the Configurations section.
3. Click on “Edit configurations” from the dropdown.
4. In the new window, you can edit any of the configurations.
5. Once done, click on the Save button.

### Delete Configurations

Other than the start date, you can delete any of the configurations if you’ve set them.

To delete a configuration:

1. Go to the discount details page.
2. In the Configurations section, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the configuration you want to delete.
3. Click on “Delete configuration” from the dropdown.

---

## Manage Discount Conditions

### Add Conditions

:::info

You can use a condition type for only one condition. After using a condition type, you will not be able to use it again for another condition. You must edit the condition that you added before of that type if you need to make any changes.

:::

To add a condition to a discount:

1. Go to the discount details page.
2. In the Conditions section, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
3. Click on “Add condition” from the dropdown.
4. Click on the condition type.
5. In the new list that opens:
    1. Choose at the top either “In” or “Not In,” where “In” indicates that the discount can be applied to the items selected in this list, and “Not In” indicates that the discount can be applied to all items except those selected in this list.
    2. Select the items from the list.
6. Once done, click “Save and add more” to add more conditions, or click “Save and close” to close the conditions window.

### Edit a Condition

To edit a discount’s condition:

1. Go to the discount details page.
2. In the Conditions section, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the condition you want to edit.
3. Click on “Edit condition” from the dropdown.
4. In the new window that opens:
    1. To add new items to the list:
        1. Click on the Add button at the top right.
        2. Choose the items you want to add.
        3. Click on either the “Save and go back” or the “Save and close” button.
    2. To remove items from the list:
        1. Choose the items you want to remove.
        2. Click on the Remove button at the top right.

### Delete a Condition

:::caution

Deleting a condition can't be undone. You can still add a new condition of the same type afterward.

:::

To delete a discount’s condition:

1. Go to the discount details page.
2. In the Conditions section, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the condition you want to delete.
3. Click on “Delete condition” from the dropdown.

---

## Delete a Discount

:::warning

Deleting a discount can't be undone.

:::

To delete a discount:

1. Go to the discount details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the first section.
3. Click on “Delete discount” from the dropdown.
4. Confirm deleting the discount by clicking the “Yes, confirm” button in the pop-up.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/discounts/manage.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
description: 'This user guide explains how to manage discounts on the Medusa admin. Learn how to edit and delete discounts'
addHowToData: true
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Discounts

In this document, you’ll learn how to manage discounts including editing and deleting a discount.

## View Discount Details

To view a discount’s details:

1. Go to Discounts.
2. Click on the discount you want to view its details

This opens the discount’s details page.

## Edit a Discount

### Change Discount Status

:::info

Changing a discount’s status to published makes it available for customers to use. Changing a discount’s status to draft makes it unavailable for customers to use.

:::

To change a discount’s status:

1. Go to the discount details page.
2. At the top right of the first section, you’ll see the status of the discount (for example, Published). Click on it.
3. Choose from the dropdown the opposite status (for example, Draft)

### Edit General Information

To edit a discount’s general information:

1. Go to the discount details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the first section.
3. Click on “Edit general information” from the dropdown.
4. In the new window, you can edit any of the discount information.
5. Once done, click on the Save button.

---

## Manage Discount Configurations

### Edit Configurations

To edit a discount’s configuration:

1. Go to the discount details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the Configurations section.
3. Click on “Edit configurations” from the dropdown.
4. In the new window, you can edit any of the configurations.
5. Once done, click on the Save button.

### Delete Configurations

Other than the start date, you can delete any of the configurations if you’ve set them.

To delete a configuration:

1. Go to the discount details page.
2. In the Configurations section, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the configuration you want to delete.
3. Click on “Delete configuration” from the dropdown.

---

## Manage Discount Conditions

### Add Conditions

:::info

You can use a condition type for only one condition. After using a condition type, you will not be able to use it again for another condition. You must edit the condition that you added before of that type if you need to make any changes.

:::

To add a condition to a discount:

1. Go to the discount details page.
2. In the Conditions section, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
3. Click on “Add condition” from the dropdown.
4. Click on the condition type.
5. In the new list that opens:
    1. Choose at the top either “In” or “Not In,” where “In” indicates that the discount can be applied to the items selected in this list, and “Not In” indicates that the discount can be applied to all items except those selected in this list.
    2. Select the items from the list.
6. Once done, click “Save and add more” to add more conditions, or click “Save and close” to close the conditions window.

### Edit a Condition

To edit a discount’s condition:

1. Go to the discount details page.
2. In the Conditions section, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the condition you want to edit.
3. Click on “Edit condition” from the dropdown.
4. In the new window that opens:
    1. To add new items to the list:
        1. Click on the Add button at the top right.
        2. Choose the items you want to add.
        3. Click on either the “Save and go back” or the “Save and close” button.
    2. To remove items from the list:
        1. Choose the items you want to remove.
        2. Click on the Remove button at the top right.

### Delete a Condition

:::caution

Deleting a condition can't be undone. You can still add a new condition of the same type afterward.

:::

To delete a discount’s condition:

1. Go to the discount details page.
2. In the Conditions section, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the condition you want to delete.
3. Click on “Delete condition” from the dropdown.

---

## Delete a Discount

:::warning

Deleting a discount can't be undone.

:::

To delete a discount:

1. Go to the discount details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the first section.
3. Click on “Delete discount” from the dropdown.
4. Confirm deleting the discount by clicking the “Yes, confirm” button in the pop-up.
