README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.medusajs.com">
    <img alt="Medusa" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7554214/153162406-bf8fd16f-aa98-4604-b87b-e13ab4baf604.png" width="100" />
  </a>
</p>
<h1 align="center">
  Medusa
</h1>

<h4 align="center">
  <a href="https://docs.medusajs.com">Documentation</a> |
  <a href="https://demo.medusajs.com/">Medusa Admin Demo</a> |
  <a href="https://www.medusajs.com">Website</a>
</h4>

<p align="center">
An open source composable commerce engine built for developers.
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/blob/master/LICENSE">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg" alt="Medusa is released under the MIT license." />
  </a>
  <a href="https://circleci.com/gh/medusajs/medusa">
    <img src="https://circleci.com/gh/medusajs/medusa.svg?style=shield" alt="Current CircleCI build status." />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat" alt="PRs welcome!" />
  </a>
    <a href="https://www.producthunt.com/posts/medusa"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Product%20Hunt-%231%20Product%20of%20the%20Day-%23DA552E" alt="Product Hunt"></a>
  <a href="https://discord.gg/xpCwq3Kfn8">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20discord-7289DA.svg" alt="Discord Chat" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=medusajs">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/medusajs.svg?label=Follow%20@medusajs" alt="Follow @medusajs" />
  </a>
</p>

## Getting Started

Follow our [quickstart guide](https://docs.medusajs.com/quickstart/quick-start) to learn how to set up a Medusa server.

### Requirements

You can check out [this documentation for details about setting up your environment](https://docs.medusajs.com/tutorial/set-up-your-development-environment).

## What is Medusa

Medusa is an open source composable commerce engine built with Node.js. Medusa enables developers to build scalable and sophisticated commerce setups with low effort and great developer experience.

You can learn more about [Medusa’s architecture in our documentation](https://docs.medusajs.com/introduction#architecture).

### Features

You can learn about all of the ecommerce features that Medusa provides [in our documentation](https://docs.medusajs.com/introduction#features).

## Roadmap

Write-ups for all features will be made available in [Github discussions](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/discussions) before starting the implementation process.

### **2022**

- [x]  Admin revamp
- [x]  Tax API
- [x]  Tax Calculation Strategy
- [x]  Cart Calculation Strategy
- [x]  Customer Groups API
- [x]  Promotions API
- [x]  Price Lists API
- [x]  Price Selection Strategy
- [x]  Import / Export API
- [x]  Sales Channel API
- [ ]  Extended Order API (managing placed orders)
- [ ]  PaymentCollection API (collecting payments separate from carts and draft orders)
- [ ]  Multi-warehouse API
- [ ]  Extended Product API (custom fields, publishing control, and more)

## Plugins

Check out [our available plugins](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/tree/master/packages) that you can install and use instantly on your Medusa server.

## Contributions

Please check [our contribution guide](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details about how to contribute to both our codebase and our documentation.

## Upgrade Guides

Follow our [upgrade guides](https://docs.medusajs.com/advanced/backend/upgrade-guides/) on the documentation to keep your Medusa project up-to-date.

## Community & Support

Use these channels to be part of the community, ask for help while using Medusa, or just learn more about Medusa:

- [Discord](https://discord.gg/medusajs): This is the main channel to join the community. You can ask for help, showcase your work with Medusa, and stay up to date with everything Medusa.
- [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/issues): for sending in any issues you face or bugs you find while using Medusa.
- [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/discussions): for joining discussions and submitting your ideas.
- [Medusa Blog](https://medusajs.com/blog/): find diverse tutorials and company news.
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/medusajs)
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/medusajs)

## License

Licensed under the [MIT License](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/blob/master/LICENSE)

Commit message:

chore: updated roadmap section in README (#2859)
Updated the Roadmap section in the README to link to the Discussion category.

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.medusajs.com">
    <img alt="Medusa" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7554214/153162406-bf8fd16f-aa98-4604-b87b-e13ab4baf604.png" width="100" />
  </a>
</p>
<h1 align="center">
  Medusa
</h1>

<h4 align="center">
  <a href="https://docs.medusajs.com">Documentation</a> |
  <a href="https://demo.medusajs.com/">Medusa Admin Demo</a> |
  <a href="https://www.medusajs.com">Website</a>
</h4>

<p align="center">
An open source composable commerce engine built for developers.
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/blob/master/LICENSE">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg" alt="Medusa is released under the MIT license." />
  </a>
  <a href="https://circleci.com/gh/medusajs/medusa">
    <img src="https://circleci.com/gh/medusajs/medusa.svg?style=shield" alt="Current CircleCI build status." />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat" alt="PRs welcome!" />
  </a>
    <a href="https://www.producthunt.com/posts/medusa"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Product%20Hunt-%231%20Product%20of%20the%20Day-%23DA552E" alt="Product Hunt"></a>
  <a href="https://discord.gg/xpCwq3Kfn8">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20discord-7289DA.svg" alt="Discord Chat" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=medusajs">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/medusajs.svg?label=Follow%20@medusajs" alt="Follow @medusajs" />
  </a>
</p>

## Getting Started

Follow our [quickstart guide](https://docs.medusajs.com/quickstart/quick-start) to learn how to set up a Medusa server.

### Requirements

You can check out [this documentation for details about setting up your environment](https://docs.medusajs.com/tutorial/set-up-your-development-environment).

## What is Medusa

Medusa is an open source composable commerce engine built with Node.js. Medusa enables developers to build scalable and sophisticated commerce setups with low effort and great developer experience.

You can learn more about [Medusa’s architecture in our documentation](https://docs.medusajs.com/introduction#architecture).

### Features

You can learn about all of the ecommerce features that Medusa provides [in our documentation](https://docs.medusajs.com/introduction#features).

## Roadmap

You can view our roadmap with features that are planned, started, and completed on the [Roadmap discussion](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/discussions/categories/roadmap) category.

## Plugins

Check out [our available plugins](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/tree/master/packages) that you can install and use instantly on your Medusa server.

## Contributions

Please check [our contribution guide](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details about how to contribute to both our codebase and our documentation.

## Upgrade Guides

Follow our [upgrade guides](https://docs.medusajs.com/advanced/backend/upgrade-guides/) on the documentation to keep your Medusa project up-to-date.

## Community & Support

Use these channels to be part of the community, ask for help while using Medusa, or just learn more about Medusa:

- [Discord](https://discord.gg/medusajs): This is the main channel to join the community. You can ask for help, showcase your work with Medusa, and stay up to date with everything Medusa.
- [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/issues): for sending in any issues you face or bugs you find while using Medusa.
- [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/discussions): for joining discussions and submitting your ideas.
- [Medusa Blog](https://medusajs.com/blog/): find diverse tutorials and company news.
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/medusajs)
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/medusajs)

## License

Licensed under the [MIT License](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/blob/master/LICENSE)
