docs/content/starters/gatsby-medusa-starter.mdx, before:

import Feedback from '@site/src/components/Feedback';

# Gatsby Storefront Quickstart

This document guides you to install and set up the Gatsby Storefront for your Medusa Server.

![Gatsby Storefront Quick Look](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003111/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/LcAsi8r_yivcro.gif)

## Instant Deployment to Netlify

Instead of manually following this guide to install then later deploy the Gatsby Storefront, you can deploy the Gatsby Storefront to Netlify with this button:

<a href="https://app.netlify.com/start/deploy?repository=https://github.com/medusajs/gatsby-starter-medusa" class="img-url">
    <img src="https://www.netlify.com/img/deploy/button.svg" alt="Deploy to Netlify" class="no-zoom-img" />
</a>

---

## Prerequisites

This document assumes you already have a Medusa server installed. If you don’t, please follow the [Quickstart guide for the Medusa server](../quickstart/quick-start.mdx) to learn how to do it.

You should also have the Gatsby CLI installed:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install gatsby-cli -g
```

---

## Installation

:::tip

It is recommended to use [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install) for the installation process as it's much faster than using NPM.

:::

1\. Create a new Gatsby project using the [Medusa starter template](https://github.com/medusajs/gatsby-starter-medusa):

```bash
gatsby new my-medusa-storefront https://github.com/medusajs/gatsby-starter-medusa
```

2\. Change to the newly created directory `my-medusa-storefront` and rename the template environment variable file to use environment variables in development:

```bash
cd my-medusa-storefront
mv .env.template .env.development
```

3\. Make sure the Medusa server is running, then run the local Gatsby server:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run start
```

Your Gatsby storefront is now running at `localhost:8000`!

<Feedback 
   event="survey_gatsby_quickstart"
   question="Did you set up the storefront successfully?"
   positiveQuestion="Is there anything that should improved?"
   negativeQuestion="Please describe the issue you faced."
/>

:::tip

If you run into errors during the installation, check out [this troubleshooting guide](../troubleshooting/common-installation-errors.mdx).

:::

---

## Development Notes

### Customization

To customize the components, pages, and UI of your Gatsby storefront, just edit files under the `src` directory.

### Data Refresh

The Gatsby storefront uses the [gatsby-source-medusa](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/tree/master/packages/gatsby-source-medusa) plugin to source data from your Medusa server. This data includes products, collections, and regions, and as a result, you can query this data in the storefront starter using GraphQL queries. You can also explore the data in your store on `localhost:8000/___graphql`.

Because of this, you must rebuild the site every time you update any of this data for it to be reflected in your storefront. The Medusa team will soon be releasing a new version of the plugin which adds incremental builds, which will improve build times.

### Change Port

By default, the Gatsby storefront runs on port `8000`.

To change the port, change the `develop` command in `package.json` to the following:

```json
"scripts": {
    //other scripts
    "develop": "gatsby develop --port=<PORT>"
}
```

Make sure to replace `<PORT>` with the port number you want the storefront to run on. For example, `3000`.

Then, on your server, update the environment variable `STORE_CORS` to the URL with the new port:

```bash
STORE_CORS=http://localhost:<PORT>
```

:::info

For more details about the Store Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) configuration, check out the [Configure your Server documentation](../usage/configurations.md#storefront-cors).

:::

### Development Resources

If you’re not familiar with Gatsby, you can learn more about it through the following resources:

- [Documentation](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs)
- [Plugin Library](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/)
- [Cheat Sheet](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/cheat-sheet/)

---

## Storefront Features

The Gatsby storefront comes with a lot of features out of the box including:

- View all products and manage your cart.

    ![Products Page](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003126/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/P0Mpvxh_qznct6.png)
- Customer authentication.

    ![Sign In Page](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003139/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/0sVcZeS_z6cftp.png)
- Full checkout workflow.

    ![One-Page Checkout](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003152/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/5wSs3yZ_iivxrh.png)
- Request swaps and returns using a customer’s order ID and Email.

    ![Request Return for Order](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003162/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/mAChp3f_ubd89n.png)

---

## See Also

- [Storefront API reference](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/store)
- [Deploy the Gatsby storefront on Netlify](../deployments/storefront/deploying-gatsby-on-netlify.md)
- [Install Stripe as a payment provider](../add-plugins/stripe.md#add-to-gatsby-storefront)

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/starters/gatsby-medusa-starter.mdx, after:

---
description: 'Learn how to install the Gatsby starter storefront to use with the Medusa Server. The Gatsby storefront includes features related to customer profiles, order returns and exchanges, and more.'
---

import Feedback from '@site/src/components/Feedback';

# Gatsby Storefront Quickstart

This document guides you to install and set up the Gatsby Storefront for your Medusa Server.

![Gatsby Storefront Quick Look](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003111/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/LcAsi8r_yivcro.gif)

## Instant Deployment to Netlify

Instead of manually following this guide to install then later deploy the Gatsby Storefront, you can deploy the Gatsby Storefront to Netlify with this button:

<a href="https://app.netlify.com/start/deploy?repository=https://github.com/medusajs/gatsby-starter-medusa" class="img-url">
    <img src="https://www.netlify.com/img/deploy/button.svg" alt="Deploy to Netlify" class="no-zoom-img" />
</a>

---

## Prerequisites

This document assumes you already have a Medusa server installed. If you don’t, please follow the [Quickstart guide for the Medusa server](../quickstart/quick-start.mdx) to learn how to do it.

You should also have the Gatsby CLI installed:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install gatsby-cli -g
```

---

## Installation

:::tip

It is recommended to use [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install) for the installation process as it's much faster than using NPM.

:::

1\. Create a new Gatsby project using the [Medusa starter template](https://github.com/medusajs/gatsby-starter-medusa):

```bash
gatsby new my-medusa-storefront https://github.com/medusajs/gatsby-starter-medusa
```

2\. Change to the newly created directory `my-medusa-storefront` and rename the template environment variable file to use environment variables in development:

```bash
cd my-medusa-storefront
mv .env.template .env.development
```

3\. Make sure the Medusa server is running, then run the local Gatsby server:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run start
```

Your Gatsby storefront is now running at `localhost:8000`!

<Feedback 
   event="survey_gatsby_quickstart"
   question="Did you set up the storefront successfully?"
   positiveQuestion="Is there anything that should improved?"
   negativeQuestion="Please describe the issue you faced."
/>

:::tip

If you run into errors during the installation, check out [this troubleshooting guide](../troubleshooting/common-installation-errors.mdx).

:::

---

## Development Notes

### Customization

To customize the components, pages, and UI of your Gatsby storefront, just edit files under the `src` directory.

### Data Refresh

The Gatsby storefront uses the [gatsby-source-medusa](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/tree/master/packages/gatsby-source-medusa) plugin to source data from your Medusa server. This data includes products, collections, and regions, and as a result, you can query this data in the storefront starter using GraphQL queries. You can also explore the data in your store on `localhost:8000/___graphql`.

Because of this, you must rebuild the site every time you update any of this data for it to be reflected in your storefront. The Medusa team will soon be releasing a new version of the plugin which adds incremental builds, which will improve build times.

### Change Port

By default, the Gatsby storefront runs on port `8000`.

To change the port, change the `develop` command in `package.json` to the following:

```json
"scripts": {
    //other scripts
    "develop": "gatsby develop --port=<PORT>"
}
```

Make sure to replace `<PORT>` with the port number you want the storefront to run on. For example, `3000`.

Then, on your server, update the environment variable `STORE_CORS` to the URL with the new port:

```bash
STORE_CORS=http://localhost:<PORT>
```

:::info

For more details about the Store Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) configuration, check out the [Configure your Server documentation](../usage/configurations.md#storefront-cors).

:::

### Development Resources

If you’re not familiar with Gatsby, you can learn more about it through the following resources:

- [Documentation](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs)
- [Plugin Library](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/)
- [Cheat Sheet](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/cheat-sheet/)

---

## Storefront Features

The Gatsby storefront comes with a lot of features out of the box including:

- View all products and manage your cart.

    ![Products Page](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003126/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/P0Mpvxh_qznct6.png)
- Customer authentication.

    ![Sign In Page](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003139/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/0sVcZeS_z6cftp.png)
- Full checkout workflow.

    ![One-Page Checkout](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003152/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/5wSs3yZ_iivxrh.png)
- Request swaps and returns using a customer’s order ID and Email.

    ![Request Return for Order](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003162/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/mAChp3f_ubd89n.png)

---

## See Also

- [Storefront API reference](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/store)
- [Deploy the Gatsby storefront on Netlify](../deployments/storefront/deploying-gatsby-on-netlify.md)
- [Install Stripe as a payment provider](../add-plugins/stripe.md#add-to-gatsby-storefront)
