docs/content/starters/nextjs-medusa-starter.mdx, before:

---
description: 'Learn how to install the Next.js starter storefront to use with Medusa. The Next.js storefront includes ready-integrations with plugins like Stripe and Algolia. It offers features like customer accounts, cart and checkout flows, and more.'
---

import Feedback from '@site/src/components/Feedback';
import QueryNote from '@site/src/components/QueryNote';

# Next.js Storefront Quickstart

This document guides you to install and set up the Next.js Starter Storefront.

<!-- vale docs.We = NO  -->

<QueryNote
  query={{
    key: 'ref',
    value: 'gatsby-medusa-starter'
  }}
  admonition={{
    type: 'note'
  }}
>
  We've deprecated the Gatsby starter storefront and instead recommend using the Next.js storefront or building your own custom storefront.
</QueryNote>

<!-- vale docs.We = YES  -->

![Next.js Storefront Demo](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003177/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/koJl8uR_n3gvii.gif)

## Instant Deployment to Netlify

Instead of manually following this guide to install then later deploy the Next.js Storefront, you can deploy the Next.js Storefront to Netlify with this button:

<a href="https://app.netlify.com/start/deploy?repository=https://github.com/medusajs/nextjs-starter-medusa" className="img-url">
  <img src="https://www.netlify.com/img/deploy/button.svg" alt="Deploy to Netlify" className="no-zoom-img" />
</a>

---

## Prerequisites

This document assumes you already have a Medusa backend installed. If you don’t, please follow the [Quickstart guide for the Medusa backend](../development/backend/install.mdx) to learn how to do it.

---

## Installation

:::tip

It is recommended to use [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install) for the installation process as it's much faster than using NPM.

:::

1\. Create a new Next.js project using the [Medusa starter template](https://github.com/medusajs/nextjs-starter-medusa):

```bash
npx create-next-app -e https://github.com/medusajs/nextjs-starter-medusa my-medusa-storefront
```

2\. Change to the newly created directory `my-medusa-storefront` and rename the template environment variable file to use environment variables in development:

```bash
cd my-medusa-storefront
mv .env.template .env.local
```

3\. Make sure the Medusa backend is running, then run the local Next.js server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Your Next.js storefront is now running at `localhost:8000`!

<Feedback 
   event="survey_nextjs_quickstart"
   question="Did you set up the storefront successfully?"
   positiveQuestion="Is there anything that should improved?"
   negativeQuestion="Please describe the issue you faced."
/>

:::tip

If you run into errors during the installation, check out [this troubleshooting guide](../troubleshooting/common-installation-errors.mdx).

:::

---

## Development Notes

### Toggle Search Engine Feature

The Next.js storefront by default is compatible with MeiliSearch.

To enable or disable the search engine, change the value of the feature in `store.config.json`:

```json
{
  "features": {
    "search": false
  }
}
```

Then, restart your Next.js backend. Depending on whether you enabled or disabled the search engine, the search bar will appear or disappear in the navigation bar accordingly.

### MeiliSearch Integration

If you have the search engine feature enabled, it is expected that you have installed the MeiliSearch plugin on your Medusa backend. If not, [follow this guide to install it](../plugins/search/meilisearch.md).

In your Next.js storefront, set the environment variables necessary for the MeiliSearch integration:

```json
NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_ENDPOINT=<YOUR_MEILISEARCH_URL>
NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>
NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_INDEX_NAME=products
```

`<YOUR_MEILISEARCH_URL>` is the URL MeiliSearch is running on. The default is `http://127.0.0.1:7700`.

`NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_INDEX_NAME` is the index name of the products in MeiliSearch. By default, it’s `products`.

`<YOUR_API_KEY>` is the API key used to search through MeiliSearch indexes. To create a new API Key, make sure that the MeiliSearch service is running and send the following request:

```bash
curl \
  -X POST '<MEILISEARCH_URL>/keys' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <MEILISEARCH_MASTER_KEY>' \
  --data-binary '{
    "description": "Search products",
    "actions": ["search"],
    "indexes": ["products"],
    "expiresAt": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z"
  }'
```

Make sure to replace `<MEILISEARCH_URL>` with the URL MeiliSearch is running on and `<MEILISEARCH_MASTER_KEY>` with your MeiliSearch [master key](https://docs.meilisearch.com/learn/security/master_api_keys.html#protecting-a-meilisearch-instance).

Then, restart the Next.js backend. You’ll be able to search through available products by clicking the search icon in the navigation bar.

:::note

To make sure the Next.js storefront properly displays the products in the search result, include in the `displayedAttributes` setting of the MeiliSearch plugin on the Medusa backend at least the fields `title`, `handle`, `description`, and `thumbnail`.

:::

![Search Result on Next.js storefront](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003191/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/gQVWvH2_h1ljig.png)

### Algolia Integration

Instead of using the default MeiliSearch search engine, you can switch to using Algolia. Make sure you start by installing the Algolia plugin on your Medusa backend. You can do it by [following this guide](../plugins/search/algolia.md).

In your Next.js storefront, set the environment variables necessary for the Algolia integration:

```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_APP_ID=<YOUR_APP_ID>
NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_API_KEY=<YOUR_SEARCH_API_KEY>
NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_INDEX_NAME=products
```

Where `<YOUR_APP_ID>` and `<YOUR_SEARCH_API_KEY>` are the Algolia App ID and Algolia Search API Key respectively. You can retrieve them from Algolia by going to [API Keys](https://www.algolia.com/account/api-keys/all) in your account settings.

`NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_INDEX_NAME` is the index name of the products in Algolia. By default, it’s `products`.

Next, change the content of `src/lib/search-client.ts` to the following:

```bash
import algoliasearch from "algoliasearch/lite"

const appId = process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_APP_ID || "" // You should add this to your environment variables

const apiKey = process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_API_KEY || "test_key"

export const searchClient = algoliasearch(appId, apiKey)

export const SEARCH_INDEX_NAME =
  process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_INDEX_NAME || "products"
```

Then, restart the Next.js backend. You’ll be able to search through available products by clicking the search icon in the navigation bar.

![Search Pop-up in Next.js Storefront](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003205/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/ZLgX5Ad_po6a4n.png)

### Stripe Payment Integration

Stripe integration is supported by default. Make sure you have Stripe installed and enabled on your Medusa backend first. You can [follow this guide to learn how to install it](../plugins/payment/stripe.md).

Then, in your Next.js storefront, set the environment variable necessary for the Stripe integration:

```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_KEY=<YOUR_PUBLISHABLE_KEY>
```

Make sure to replace `<YOUR_PUBLISHABLE_KEY>` with your Stripe publishable key. It can be retrieved from your [Stripe dashboard](https://dashboard.stripe.com/) by going to Developers → API Keys.

If you restart your Next.js backend you should be able to pay with Stripe on checkout.

![Pay with Stripe on Checkout](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003250/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/h5mWdJT_yjogcq.png)

### PayPal Payment Integration

PayPal integration is supported by default. Make sure you have PayPal installed and enabled on your Medusa backend first. You can [follow this guide to learn how to install it](../plugins/payment/paypal.md).

Then, in your Next.js storefront, set the environment variable necessary for the PayPal integration:

```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_PAYPAL_CLIENT_ID=<YOUR_CLIENT_ID>
```

Make sure to replace `<YOUR_CLIENT_ID>` with your PayPal client ID. You can retrieve it from the [PayPal developer dashboard](https://developer.paypal.com/developer/applications/).

If you restart your Next.js backend you should be able to pay with PayPal on checkout.

![Pay with PayPal on Checkout](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003264/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/F8OvsOJ_mlx0le.png)

### Customization

To customize the pages of the storefront, you can customize the files under the `src/pages` directory.

To customize the components used in the storefront, you can customize the files under the `src/modules` directory.

To customize the styles of the storefront, you can customize the `src/styles` directory.

### Change Port

By default, the Next.js storefront runs on port `8000`.

To change the port, change the `develop` command in `package.json` to the following:

```json
"scripts": {
    //other scripts
    "dev": "next dev -p <PORT>"
}
```

Make sure to replace `<PORT>` with the port number you want the storefront to run on. For example, `3000`.

Then, on your backend, update the environment variable `STORE_CORS` to the URL with the new port:

```bash
STORE_CORS=http://localhost:<PORT>
```

### Development Resources

You can learn more about development with Next.js through [their documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/getting-started).

---

## Storefront Features

- View all products and manage your cart.

![All Products Page](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003278/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/1vLAYbH_sulxrr.png)

- Customer authentication and profiles.

![Customer Profile](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003287/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/etW3b3L_wccrez.png)

- Full checkout workflow.

![Checkout Page](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003296/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/VC8SYfb_eowjno.png)

---

## See Also

- [Storefront API reference](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/store)
- [Install Medusa Admin](../admin/quickstart.mdx).
- [Install Stripe as a payment processor](../plugins/payment/stripe.md#add-to-nextjs-storefront)

Commit message:

docs: added node.js required version for next.js storefront (#3758)
* docs: added node.js required version for next.js storefront

* changed required version of node across docs

* small fix

docs/content/starters/nextjs-medusa-starter.mdx, after:

---
description: 'Learn how to install the Next.js starter storefront to use with Medusa. The Next.js storefront includes ready-integrations with plugins like Stripe and Algolia. It offers features like customer accounts, cart and checkout flows, and more.'
---

import Feedback from '@site/src/components/Feedback';
import QueryNote from '@site/src/components/QueryNote';

# Next.js Storefront Quickstart

This document guides you to install and set up the Next.js Starter Storefront.

<!-- vale docs.We = NO  -->

<QueryNote
  query={{
    key: 'ref',
    value: 'gatsby-medusa-starter'
  }}
  admonition={{
    type: 'note'
  }}
>
  We've deprecated the Gatsby starter storefront and instead recommend using the Next.js storefront or building your own custom storefront.
</QueryNote>

<!-- vale docs.We = YES  -->

![Next.js Storefront Demo](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003177/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/koJl8uR_n3gvii.gif)

## Instant Deployment to Netlify

Instead of manually following this guide to install then later deploy the Next.js Storefront, you can deploy the Next.js Storefront to Netlify with this button:

<a href="https://app.netlify.com/start/deploy?repository=https://github.com/medusajs/nextjs-starter-medusa" className="img-url">
  <img src="https://www.netlify.com/img/deploy/button.svg" alt="Deploy to Netlify" className="no-zoom-img" />
</a>

---

## Prerequisites

This document assumes you already have a Medusa backend installed. If you don’t, please follow the [Quickstart guide for the Medusa backend](../development/backend/install.mdx) to learn how to do it.

You should also have Node.js with v16 or greater installed. You can check your Node.js version with the following command:

```bash noReport
node -v
```

You can install Node from the [official website](https://nodejs.org/en/).

---

## Installation

:::tip

It is recommended to use [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install) for the installation process as it's much faster than using NPM.

:::

1\. Create a new Next.js project using the [Medusa starter template](https://github.com/medusajs/nextjs-starter-medusa):

```bash
npx create-next-app -e https://github.com/medusajs/nextjs-starter-medusa my-medusa-storefront
```

2\. Change to the newly created directory `my-medusa-storefront` and rename the template environment variable file to use environment variables in development:

```bash
cd my-medusa-storefront
mv .env.template .env.local
```

3\. Make sure the Medusa backend is running, then run the local Next.js server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Your Next.js storefront is now running at `localhost:8000`!

<Feedback 
   event="survey_nextjs_quickstart"
   question="Did you set up the storefront successfully?"
   positiveQuestion="Is there anything that should improved?"
   negativeQuestion="Please describe the issue you faced."
/>

:::tip

If you run into errors during the installation, check out [this troubleshooting guide](../troubleshooting/common-installation-errors.mdx).

:::

---

## Development Notes

### Toggle Search Engine Feature

The Next.js storefront by default is compatible with MeiliSearch.

To enable or disable the search engine, change the value of the feature in `store.config.json`:

```json
{
  "features": {
    "search": false
  }
}
```

Then, restart your Next.js backend. Depending on whether you enabled or disabled the search engine, the search bar will appear or disappear in the navigation bar accordingly.

### MeiliSearch Integration

If you have the search engine feature enabled, it is expected that you have installed the MeiliSearch plugin on your Medusa backend. If not, [follow this guide to install it](../plugins/search/meilisearch.md).

In your Next.js storefront, set the environment variables necessary for the MeiliSearch integration:

```json
NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_ENDPOINT=<YOUR_MEILISEARCH_URL>
NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>
NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_INDEX_NAME=products
```

`<YOUR_MEILISEARCH_URL>` is the URL MeiliSearch is running on. The default is `http://127.0.0.1:7700`.

`NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_INDEX_NAME` is the index name of the products in MeiliSearch. By default, it’s `products`.

`<YOUR_API_KEY>` is the API key used to search through MeiliSearch indexes. To create a new API Key, make sure that the MeiliSearch service is running and send the following request:

```bash
curl \
  -X POST '<MEILISEARCH_URL>/keys' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <MEILISEARCH_MASTER_KEY>' \
  --data-binary '{
    "description": "Search products",
    "actions": ["search"],
    "indexes": ["products"],
    "expiresAt": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z"
  }'
```

Make sure to replace `<MEILISEARCH_URL>` with the URL MeiliSearch is running on and `<MEILISEARCH_MASTER_KEY>` with your MeiliSearch [master key](https://docs.meilisearch.com/learn/security/master_api_keys.html#protecting-a-meilisearch-instance).

Then, restart the Next.js backend. You’ll be able to search through available products by clicking the search icon in the navigation bar.

:::note

To make sure the Next.js storefront properly displays the products in the search result, include in the `displayedAttributes` setting of the MeiliSearch plugin on the Medusa backend at least the fields `title`, `handle`, `description`, and `thumbnail`.

:::

![Search Result on Next.js storefront](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003191/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/gQVWvH2_h1ljig.png)

### Algolia Integration

Instead of using the default MeiliSearch search engine, you can switch to using Algolia. Make sure you start by installing the Algolia plugin on your Medusa backend. You can do it by [following this guide](../plugins/search/algolia.md).

In your Next.js storefront, set the environment variables necessary for the Algolia integration:

```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_APP_ID=<YOUR_APP_ID>
NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_API_KEY=<YOUR_SEARCH_API_KEY>
NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_INDEX_NAME=products
```

Where `<YOUR_APP_ID>` and `<YOUR_SEARCH_API_KEY>` are the Algolia App ID and Algolia Search API Key respectively. You can retrieve them from Algolia by going to [API Keys](https://www.algolia.com/account/api-keys/all) in your account settings.

`NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_INDEX_NAME` is the index name of the products in Algolia. By default, it’s `products`.

Next, change the content of `src/lib/search-client.ts` to the following:

```bash
import algoliasearch from "algoliasearch/lite"

const appId = process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_APP_ID || "" // You should add this to your environment variables

const apiKey = process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SEARCH_API_KEY || "test_key"

export const searchClient = algoliasearch(appId, apiKey)

export const SEARCH_INDEX_NAME =
  process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_INDEX_NAME || "products"
```

Then, restart the Next.js backend. You’ll be able to search through available products by clicking the search icon in the navigation bar.

![Search Pop-up in Next.js Storefront](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003205/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/ZLgX5Ad_po6a4n.png)

### Stripe Payment Integration

Stripe integration is supported by default. Make sure you have Stripe installed and enabled on your Medusa backend first. You can [follow this guide to learn how to install it](../plugins/payment/stripe.md).

Then, in your Next.js storefront, set the environment variable necessary for the Stripe integration:

```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_KEY=<YOUR_PUBLISHABLE_KEY>
```

Make sure to replace `<YOUR_PUBLISHABLE_KEY>` with your Stripe publishable key. It can be retrieved from your [Stripe dashboard](https://dashboard.stripe.com/) by going to Developers → API Keys.

If you restart your Next.js backend you should be able to pay with Stripe on checkout.

![Pay with Stripe on Checkout](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003250/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/h5mWdJT_yjogcq.png)

### PayPal Payment Integration

PayPal integration is supported by default. Make sure you have PayPal installed and enabled on your Medusa backend first. You can [follow this guide to learn how to install it](../plugins/payment/paypal.md).

Then, in your Next.js storefront, set the environment variable necessary for the PayPal integration:

```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_PAYPAL_CLIENT_ID=<YOUR_CLIENT_ID>
```

Make sure to replace `<YOUR_CLIENT_ID>` with your PayPal client ID. You can retrieve it from the [PayPal developer dashboard](https://developer.paypal.com/developer/applications/).

If you restart your Next.js backend you should be able to pay with PayPal on checkout.

![Pay with PayPal on Checkout](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003264/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/F8OvsOJ_mlx0le.png)

### Customization

To customize the pages of the storefront, you can customize the files under the `src/pages` directory.

To customize the components used in the storefront, you can customize the files under the `src/modules` directory.

To customize the styles of the storefront, you can customize the `src/styles` directory.

### Change Port

By default, the Next.js storefront runs on port `8000`.

To change the port, change the `develop` command in `package.json` to the following:

```json
"scripts": {
    //other scripts
    "dev": "next dev -p <PORT>"
}
```

Make sure to replace `<PORT>` with the port number you want the storefront to run on. For example, `3000`.

Then, on your backend, update the environment variable `STORE_CORS` to the URL with the new port:

```bash
STORE_CORS=http://localhost:<PORT>
```

### Development Resources

You can learn more about development with Next.js through [their documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/getting-started).

---

## Storefront Features

- View all products and manage your cart.

![All Products Page](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003278/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/1vLAYbH_sulxrr.png)

- Customer authentication and profiles.

![Customer Profile](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003287/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/etW3b3L_wccrez.png)

- Full checkout workflow.

![Checkout Page](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668003296/Medusa%20Docs/Screenshots/VC8SYfb_eowjno.png)

---

## See Also

- [Storefront API reference](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/store)
- [Install Medusa Admin](../admin/quickstart.mdx).
- [Install Stripe as a payment processor](../plugins/payment/stripe.md#add-to-nextjs-storefront)
