docs/content/modules/products/storefront/show-products.mdx, before:

---
description: 'Learn how to show products in your storefront using the Store REST APIs. This includes listing products, showing the price of a product, and more.'
addHowToData: true
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# How to Show Products on the Storefront

In this document, you’ll learn how to show products in your storefront using the Store REST APIs.

## Overview

Using the products store REST APIs, you can display products on your storefront along with their different details.

### Scenario

You want to add or use the following storefront functionalities:

- List products with filters.
- Display product prices.
- Search products.
- Retrieve details of a single product by ID or by handle.

---

## Prerequisites

### Medusa Components

It's assumed that you already have a Medusa backend installed and set up. If not, you can follow the [quickstart guide](../../../development/backend/install.mdx) to get started.

It's also assumed you already have a storefront set up. It can be a custom storefront or one of Medusa’s storefronts. If you don’t have a storefront set up, you can install the [Next.js starter storefront](../../../starters/nextjs-medusa-starter.mdx).

### JS Client

This guide includes code snippets to send requests to your Medusa backend using Medusa’s JS Client, among other methods.

If you follow the JS Client code blocks, it’s assumed you already have [Medusa’s JS Client installed](../../../js-client/overview.md) and have [created an instance of the client](../../../js-client/overview.md#configuration).

### Medusa React

This guide also includes code snippets to send requests to your Medusa backend using Medusa React, among other methods.

If you follow the Medusa React code blocks, it's assumed you already have [Medusa React installed](../../../medusa-react/overview.md) and have [used MedusaProvider higher in your component tree](../../../medusa-react/overview.md#usage).

---

## List Products

You can list available products using the [List Products endpoint](/api/store#tag/Products/operation/GetProducts):

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```ts
medusa.products.list()
.then(({ products, limit, offset, count }) => {
  console.log(products.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { useProducts } from "medusa-react"
import { Product } from "@medusajs/medusa"

const Products = () => {
  const { products, isLoading } = useProducts()

  return (
    <div>
      {isLoading && <span>Loading...</span>}
      {products && !products.length && <span>No Products</span>}
      {products && products.length > 0 && (
        <ul>
          {products.map((product: Product) => (
            <li key={product.id}>{product.title}</li>
          ))}
        </ul>
      )}
    </div>
  )
}

export default Products
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

```ts
fetch(`<BACKEND_URL>/store/products`, {
  credentials: "include",
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ products, limit, offset, count }) => {
  console.log(products.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X GET '<BACKEND_URL>/store/products'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This endpoint does not require any parameters. You can pass it parameters related to pagination, filtering, and more as explained in the [API reference](/api/store#tag/Products/operation/GetProducts).

The request returns an array of product objects along with [pagination parameters](/api/store#section/Pagination).

### Filtering Retrieved Products

The List Products endpoint accepts different query parameters that allow you to filter through retrieved results.

For example, you can filter products by a category ID:

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```ts
medusa.products.list({
  category_id: ["cat_123"],
})
.then(({ products, limit, offset, count }) => {
  console.log(products.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { useProducts } from "medusa-react"
import { Product } from "@medusajs/medusa"

const Products = () => {
  const { products, isLoading } = useProducts({
    category_id: ["cat_123"],
  })

  return (
    <div>
      {isLoading && <span>Loading...</span>}
      {products && !products.length && <span>No Products</span>}
      {products && products.length > 0 && (
        <ul>
          {products.map((product: Product) => (
            <li key={product.id}>{product.title}</li>
          ))}
        </ul>
      )}
    </div>
  )
}

export default Products
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

```ts
fetch(`<BACKEND_URL>/store/products?category_id[]=cat_123`, {
  credentials: "include",
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ products, limit, offset, count }) => {
  console.log(products.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X GET '<BACKEND_URL>/store/products?category_id[]=cat_123'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This will retrieve only products that belong to that category.

### Product Pricing Parameters

By default, the prices are retrieved based on the default currency associated with a store. You can use the following query parameters to ensure you are retrieving correct pricing based on the customer’s context:

- `region_id`: The ID of the customer’s region.
- `cart_id`: The ID of the customer’s cart.
- `currency_code`: The code of the currency to retrieve prices for.

It’s recommended to always include the cart and region’s IDs when you’re listing or retrieving a single product’s details, as it’ll show you the correct pricing fields as explained in the next section.

For example:

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```ts
medusa.products.list({
  cart_id,
  region_id,
})
.then(({ products, limit, offset, count }) => {
  console.log(products.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { useProducts } from "medusa-react"
import { Product } from "@medusajs/medusa"

const Products = () => {
  const { products, isLoading } = useProducts({
    cart_id,
    region_id,
  })

  return (
    <div>
      {isLoading && <span>Loading...</span>}
      {products && !products.length && <span>No Products</span>}
      {products && products.length > 0 && (
        <ul>
          {products.map((product: Product) => (
            <li key={product.id}>{product.title}</li>
          ))}
        </ul>
      )}
    </div>
  )
}

export default Products
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

<!-- eslint-disable max-len -->

```ts
fetch(`<BACKEND_URL>/store/products?cart_id=${cartId}&region_id=${regionId}`, {
  credentials: "include",
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ products, limit, offset, count }) => {
  console.log(products.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X GET '<BACKEND_URL>/store/products?cart_id=<CART_ID>&region_id=<REGION_ID>'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Display Product Price

Each product object in the retrieved array has a `variants` array. Each item in the `variants` array is a product variant object.

Product prices are available for each variant in the product. Each variant has a `prices` array with all the available prices in the context. However, when displaying the variant’s price, you’ll use the following properties inside a variant object:

- `original_price`: The original price of the product variant.
- `calculated_price`: The calculated price, which can be based on prices defined in a price list.
- `original_tax`: The tax amount applied to the original price, if any.
- `calculated_tax`: The tax amount applied to the calculated price, if any.
- `original_price_incl_tax`: The price after applying the tax amount on the original price.
- `calculated_price_incl_tax`: The price after applying the tax amount on the calculated price

Typically, you would display the `calculated_price_incl_tax` as the price of the product variant.

:::note

You must pass one of the [pricing parameters](#product-pricing-parameters) to the request to retrieve these values. Otherwise, their value will be `null`.

:::

Prices in Medusa are stored as the price entered by the admin multiplied by a 100. So, to show the correct price, you would need to convert it to a decimal with a method like this:

```ts
const convertToDecimal = (amount: number) => {
  return Math.floor(amount) / 100
}
```

<!-- vale docs.Spacing = NO -->

To display it along with a currency, it’s recommended to use JavaScript’s [Intl.NumberFormat](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/NumberFormat). For example:

<!-- vale docs.Spacing = YES -->

```ts
new Intl.NumberFormat("en-US", {
  style: "currency",
  currency: "eur",
}).format(convertToDecimal(amount))
```

Ideally, you would retrieve the value of the `currency` property from the selected region’s `currency_code` attribute.

Medusa React provides utility methods such as `formatVariantPrice` that handles this logic for you.

Here’s an example of how you can calculate the price with and without Medusa React:

<Tabs groupId="client-preference" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Without Medusa Client" default>

```tsx
import React, { useEffect, useState } from "react"
import Medusa from "@medusajs/medusa-js"

const medusa = new Medusa({ 
  baseUrl: "<YOUR_BACKEND_URL>", 
  maxRetries: 3, 
})

function Products() {
  const [products, setProducts] = useState([])

  useEffect(() => {
    medusa.products.list({
      // TODO assuming region is already defined somewhere
      region_id: region.id,
    })
    .then(({ products, limit, offset, count }) => {
      // ignore pagination for sake of example
      setProducts(products)
    })
  })

  const convertToDecimal = (amount) => {
    return Math.floor(amount) / 100
  }

  const formatPrice = (amount) => {
    return new Intl.NumberFormat("en-US", {
      style: "currency",
      // TODO assuming region is already defined somewhere
      currency: region.currency_code,
    }).format(convertToDecimal(amount))
  }
  
  return (
    <ul>
      {products.map((product) => (
        <>
          {product.variants.map((variant) => (
            <li key={variant.id}>{
              formatPrice(variant.calculated_price_incl_tax)
            }</li>
          ))}
        </>
      ))}
    </ul>
  )
}

export default Products
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="With Medusa React">

```tsx
import { formatVariantPrice, useProducts } from "medusa-react"
import { Product, ProductVariant } from "@medusajs/medusa"

const Products = () => {
  const { products, isLoading } = useProducts({
    region_id: region.id, // assuming already defined somewhere
  })

  return (
    <div>
      {isLoading && <span>Loading...</span>}
      {products && !products.length && (
        <span>No Products</span>
      )}
      {products && products.length > 0 && (
        <ul>
          {products.map((product: Product) => (
            <>
              {product.variants.map(
                (variant: ProductVariant) => (
                  <li key={variant.id}>
                    {formatVariantPrice({
                      variant,
                      // assuming already defined somewhere
                      region,
                    })}
                  </li>
                ))}
            </>
          ))}
        </ul>
      )}
    </div>
  )
}

export default Products
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

---

## Search Products

:::note

The Search functionality requires either installing a [search plugin](../../../plugins/search/index.mdx) or creating a search service.

:::

You can search products using the [Search Products endpoint](/api/store#tag/Products/operation/PostProductsSearch):

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```ts
medusa.products.search({
  q: "Shirt",
})
.then(({ hits }) => {
  console.log(hits.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

```ts
fetch(`<BACKEND_URL>/store/products/search?q=Shirt`, {
  credentials: "include",
  method: "POST",
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ hits }) => {
  console.log(hits.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X POST '<BACKEND_URL>/store/products/search?q=Shirt'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This endpoint requires the query parameter `q` being the term to search products for. The search plugin or service you’re using determine how `q` will be used to search the products. It also accepts pagination parameters as explained in the [API reference](/api/store#tag/Products/operation/PostProductsSearch).

The request returns a `hits` array holding the result items. The structure of the items depends on the plugin you’re using.

---

## Retrieve a Product by ID

You can retrieve the details of a single product by its ID using the [Get a Product endpoint](/api/store#tag/Products/operation/GetProductsProduct):

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```ts
medusa.products.retrieve(productId)
.then(({ product }) => {
  console.log(product.id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { useProduct } from "medusa-react"

const Products = () => {
  const { product, isLoading } = useProduct(productId)

  return (
    <div>
      {isLoading && <span>Loading...</span>}
      {product && <span>{product.title}</span>}
    </div>
  )
}

export default Products
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

```ts
fetch(`<BACKEND_URL>/store/products/${productId}`, {
  credentials: "include",
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ product }) => {
  console.log(product.id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X GET '<BACKEND_URL>/store/products/<PRODUCT_ID>'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This endpoint requires the product’s ID to be passed as a path parameter. You can also pass query parameters such as `cart_id` and `region_id` which are relevant for pricing as explained in the [Product Pricing Parameters section](#product-pricing-parameters). You can check the full list of accepted parameters in the [API reference](/api/store#tag/Products/operation/GetProductsProduct).

The request returns a product object. You can display its price as explained in the [Display Product Price](#display-product-price) section.

---

## Retrieve Product by Handle

On the storefront, you may use the handle of a product as its page’s path. For example, instead of displaying the product’s details on the path `/products/prod_123`, you can display it on the path `/products/shirt`, where `shirt` is the handle of the product. This type of URL is human-readable and is good for Search Engine Optimization (SEO)

You can retrieve the details of a product by its handle by sending a request to the List Products endpoint, passing the `handle` as a filter:

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```ts
medusa.products.list({
  handle,
})
.then(({ products }) => {
  if (!products.length) {
    // product does not exist
  }
  const product = products[0]
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { useProducts } from "medusa-react"

const Products = () => {
  const { products, isLoading } = useProducts({
    handle,
  })

  return (
    <div>
      {isLoading && <span>Loading...</span>}
      {products && !products.length && (
        <span>Product does not exist</span>
      )}
      {products && products.length > 0 && products[0].title}
    </div>
  )
}

export default Products
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

```ts
fetch(`<BACKEND_URL>/store/products?handle=${handle}`, {
  credentials: "include",
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ products }) => {
  if (!products.length) {
    // product does not exist
  }
  const product = products[0]
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X GET '<BACKEND_URL>/store/products?handle=<HANDLE>'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

As the `handle` of each product is unique, when you pass the handle as a filter you’ll either:

- receive an empty `products` array, meaning the product doesn’t exist;
- or you’ll receive a `products` array with one item being the product you’re looking for. In this case, you can access the product at index `0`.

As explained earlier, make sure to pass the [product pricing parameters](#product-pricing-parameters) to [display the product's price](#display-product-price)

---

## See Also

- [How to use regions in a storefront](../../regions-and-currencies/storefront/use-regions.mdx)
- [How to implement cart functionality](../../carts-and-checkout/storefront/implement-cart.mdx)

Commit message:

docs: added products conceptual docs (#3854)
* docs: added products conceptual docs

* eslint fixes

* adjusted pricing note in show-products docs

docs/content/modules/products/storefront/show-products.mdx, after:

---
description: 'Learn how to show products in your storefront using the Store REST APIs. This includes listing products, showing the price of a product, and more.'
addHowToData: true
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# How to Show Products on the Storefront

In this document, you’ll learn how to show products in your storefront using the Store REST APIs.

## Overview

Using the products store REST APIs, you can display products on your storefront along with their different details.

### Scenario

You want to add or use the following storefront functionalities:

- List products with filters.
- Display product prices.
- Search products.
- Retrieve details of a single product by ID or by handle.

---

## Prerequisites

### Medusa Components

It's assumed that you already have a Medusa backend installed and set up. If not, you can follow the [quickstart guide](../../../development/backend/install.mdx) to get started.

It's also assumed you already have a storefront set up. It can be a custom storefront or one of Medusa’s storefronts. If you don’t have a storefront set up, you can install the [Next.js starter storefront](../../../starters/nextjs-medusa-starter.mdx).

### JS Client

This guide includes code snippets to send requests to your Medusa backend using Medusa’s JS Client, among other methods.

If you follow the JS Client code blocks, it’s assumed you already have [Medusa’s JS Client installed](../../../js-client/overview.md) and have [created an instance of the client](../../../js-client/overview.md#configuration).

### Medusa React

This guide also includes code snippets to send requests to your Medusa backend using Medusa React, among other methods.

If you follow the Medusa React code blocks, it's assumed you already have [Medusa React installed](../../../medusa-react/overview.md) and have [used MedusaProvider higher in your component tree](../../../medusa-react/overview.md#usage).

---

## List Products

You can list available products using the [List Products endpoint](/api/store#tag/Products/operation/GetProducts):

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```ts
medusa.products.list()
.then(({ products, limit, offset, count }) => {
  console.log(products.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { useProducts } from "medusa-react"
import { Product } from "@medusajs/medusa"

const Products = () => {
  const { products, isLoading } = useProducts()

  return (
    <div>
      {isLoading && <span>Loading...</span>}
      {products && !products.length && <span>No Products</span>}
      {products && products.length > 0 && (
        <ul>
          {products.map((product: Product) => (
            <li key={product.id}>{product.title}</li>
          ))}
        </ul>
      )}
    </div>
  )
}

export default Products
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

```ts
fetch(`<BACKEND_URL>/store/products`, {
  credentials: "include",
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ products, limit, offset, count }) => {
  console.log(products.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X GET '<BACKEND_URL>/store/products'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This endpoint does not require any parameters. You can pass it parameters related to pagination, filtering, and more as explained in the [API reference](/api/store#tag/Products/operation/GetProducts).

The request returns an array of product objects along with [pagination parameters](/api/store#section/Pagination).

### Filtering Retrieved Products

The List Products endpoint accepts different query parameters that allow you to filter through retrieved results.

For example, you can filter products by a category ID:

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```ts
medusa.products.list({
  category_id: ["cat_123"],
})
.then(({ products, limit, offset, count }) => {
  console.log(products.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { useProducts } from "medusa-react"
import { Product } from "@medusajs/medusa"

const Products = () => {
  const { products, isLoading } = useProducts({
    category_id: ["cat_123"],
  })

  return (
    <div>
      {isLoading && <span>Loading...</span>}
      {products && !products.length && <span>No Products</span>}
      {products && products.length > 0 && (
        <ul>
          {products.map((product: Product) => (
            <li key={product.id}>{product.title}</li>
          ))}
        </ul>
      )}
    </div>
  )
}

export default Products
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

```ts
fetch(`<BACKEND_URL>/store/products?category_id[]=cat_123`, {
  credentials: "include",
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ products, limit, offset, count }) => {
  console.log(products.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X GET '<BACKEND_URL>/store/products?category_id[]=cat_123'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This will retrieve only products that belong to that category.

### Product Pricing Parameters

By default, the prices are retrieved based on the default currency associated with a store. You can use the following query parameters to ensure you are retrieving correct pricing based on the customer’s context:

- `region_id`: The ID of the customer’s region.
- `cart_id`: The ID of the customer’s cart.
- `currency_code`: The code of the currency to retrieve prices for.

It’s recommended to always include the cart and region’s IDs when you’re listing or retrieving a single product’s details, as it’ll show you the correct pricing fields as explained in the next section.

For example:

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```ts
medusa.products.list({
  cart_id,
  region_id,
})
.then(({ products, limit, offset, count }) => {
  console.log(products.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { useProducts } from "medusa-react"
import { Product } from "@medusajs/medusa"

const Products = () => {
  const { products, isLoading } = useProducts({
    cart_id,
    region_id,
  })

  return (
    <div>
      {isLoading && <span>Loading...</span>}
      {products && !products.length && <span>No Products</span>}
      {products && products.length > 0 && (
        <ul>
          {products.map((product: Product) => (
            <li key={product.id}>{product.title}</li>
          ))}
        </ul>
      )}
    </div>
  )
}

export default Products
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

<!-- eslint-disable max-len -->

```ts
fetch(`<BACKEND_URL>/store/products?cart_id=${cartId}&region_id=${regionId}`, {
  credentials: "include",
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ products, limit, offset, count }) => {
  console.log(products.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X GET '<BACKEND_URL>/store/products?cart_id=<CART_ID>&region_id=<REGION_ID>'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Display Product Price

Each product object in the retrieved array has a `variants` array. Each item in the `variants` array is a product variant object.

Product prices are available for each variant in the product. Each variant has a `prices` array with all the available prices in the context. However, when displaying the variant’s price, you’ll use the following properties inside a variant object:

- `original_price`: The original price of the product variant.
- `calculated_price`: The calculated price, which can be based on prices defined in a price list.
- `original_tax`: The tax amount applied to the original price, if any.
- `calculated_tax`: The tax amount applied to the calculated price, if any.
- `original_price_incl_tax`: The price after applying the tax amount on the original price.
- `calculated_price_incl_tax`: The price after applying the tax amount on the calculated price

Typically, you would display the `calculated_price_incl_tax` as the price of the product variant.

:::note

You must pass one of the [pricing parameters](#product-pricing-parameters) to the request to retrieve these values. Otherwise, their value will be `null`.

:::

By default, prices in Medusa are stored as the price entered by the admin multiplied by a 100.

:::note

This is the behaviour if you're using the admin dashboard to create products. If you're using a different logic to create products and store prices, you can skip the instructions in this section.

:::

So, to show the correct price, you would need to convert it to its actual price with a method like this:

```ts
const convertToDecimal = (amount: number) => {
  return Math.floor(amount) / 100
}
```

<!-- vale docs.Spacing = NO -->

To display it along with a currency, it’s recommended to use JavaScript’s [Intl.NumberFormat](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/NumberFormat). For example:

<!-- vale docs.Spacing = YES -->

```ts
new Intl.NumberFormat("en-US", {
  style: "currency",
  currency: "eur",
}).format(convertToDecimal(amount))
```

Ideally, you would retrieve the value of the `currency` property from the selected region’s `currency_code` attribute.

Medusa React provides utility methods such as `formatVariantPrice` that handles this logic for you.

Here’s an example of how you can calculate the price with and without Medusa React:

<Tabs groupId="client-preference" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Without Medusa Client" default>

```tsx
import React, { useEffect, useState } from "react"
import Medusa from "@medusajs/medusa-js"

const medusa = new Medusa({ 
  baseUrl: "<YOUR_BACKEND_URL>", 
  maxRetries: 3, 
})

function Products() {
  const [products, setProducts] = useState([])

  useEffect(() => {
    medusa.products.list({
      // TODO assuming region is already defined somewhere
      region_id: region.id,
    })
    .then(({ products, limit, offset, count }) => {
      // ignore pagination for sake of example
      setProducts(products)
    })
  })

  const convertToDecimal = (amount) => {
    return Math.floor(amount) / 100
  }

  const formatPrice = (amount) => {
    return new Intl.NumberFormat("en-US", {
      style: "currency",
      // TODO assuming region is already defined somewhere
      currency: region.currency_code,
    }).format(convertToDecimal(amount))
  }
  
  return (
    <ul>
      {products.map((product) => (
        <>
          {product.variants.map((variant) => (
            <li key={variant.id}>{
              formatPrice(variant.calculated_price_incl_tax)
            }</li>
          ))}
        </>
      ))}
    </ul>
  )
}

export default Products
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="With Medusa React">

```tsx
import { formatVariantPrice, useProducts } from "medusa-react"
import { Product, ProductVariant } from "@medusajs/medusa"

const Products = () => {
  const { products, isLoading } = useProducts({
    region_id: region.id, // assuming already defined somewhere
  })

  return (
    <div>
      {isLoading && <span>Loading...</span>}
      {products && !products.length && (
        <span>No Products</span>
      )}
      {products && products.length > 0 && (
        <ul>
          {products.map((product: Product) => (
            <>
              {product.variants.map(
                (variant: ProductVariant) => (
                  <li key={variant.id}>
                    {formatVariantPrice({
                      variant,
                      // assuming already defined somewhere
                      region,
                    })}
                  </li>
                ))}
            </>
          ))}
        </ul>
      )}
    </div>
  )
}

export default Products
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

---

## Search Products

:::note

The Search functionality requires either installing a [search plugin](../../../plugins/search/index.mdx) or creating a search service.

:::

You can search products using the [Search Products endpoint](/api/store#tag/Products/operation/PostProductsSearch):

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```ts
medusa.products.search({
  q: "Shirt",
})
.then(({ hits }) => {
  console.log(hits.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

```ts
fetch(`<BACKEND_URL>/store/products/search?q=Shirt`, {
  credentials: "include",
  method: "POST",
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ hits }) => {
  console.log(hits.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X POST '<BACKEND_URL>/store/products/search?q=Shirt'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This endpoint requires the query parameter `q` being the term to search products for. The search plugin or service you’re using determine how `q` will be used to search the products. It also accepts pagination parameters as explained in the [API reference](/api/store#tag/Products/operation/PostProductsSearch).

The request returns a `hits` array holding the result items. The structure of the items depends on the plugin you’re using.

---

## Retrieve a Product by ID

You can retrieve the details of a single product by its ID using the [Get a Product endpoint](/api/store#tag/Products/operation/GetProductsProduct):

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```ts
medusa.products.retrieve(productId)
.then(({ product }) => {
  console.log(product.id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { useProduct } from "medusa-react"

const Products = () => {
  const { product, isLoading } = useProduct(productId)

  return (
    <div>
      {isLoading && <span>Loading...</span>}
      {product && <span>{product.title}</span>}
    </div>
  )
}

export default Products
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

```ts
fetch(`<BACKEND_URL>/store/products/${productId}`, {
  credentials: "include",
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ product }) => {
  console.log(product.id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X GET '<BACKEND_URL>/store/products/<PRODUCT_ID>'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This endpoint requires the product’s ID to be passed as a path parameter. You can also pass query parameters such as `cart_id` and `region_id` which are relevant for pricing as explained in the [Product Pricing Parameters section](#product-pricing-parameters). You can check the full list of accepted parameters in the [API reference](/api/store#tag/Products/operation/GetProductsProduct).

The request returns a product object. You can display its price as explained in the [Display Product Price](#display-product-price) section.

---

## Retrieve Product by Handle

On the storefront, you may use the handle of a product as its page’s path. For example, instead of displaying the product’s details on the path `/products/prod_123`, you can display it on the path `/products/shirt`, where `shirt` is the handle of the product. This type of URL is human-readable and is good for Search Engine Optimization (SEO)

You can retrieve the details of a product by its handle by sending a request to the List Products endpoint, passing the `handle` as a filter:

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```ts
medusa.products.list({
  handle,
})
.then(({ products }) => {
  if (!products.length) {
    // product does not exist
  }
  const product = products[0]
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { useProducts } from "medusa-react"

const Products = () => {
  const { products, isLoading } = useProducts({
    handle,
  })

  return (
    <div>
      {isLoading && <span>Loading...</span>}
      {products && !products.length && (
        <span>Product does not exist</span>
      )}
      {products && products.length > 0 && products[0].title}
    </div>
  )
}

export default Products
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

```ts
fetch(`<BACKEND_URL>/store/products?handle=${handle}`, {
  credentials: "include",
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ products }) => {
  if (!products.length) {
    // product does not exist
  }
  const product = products[0]
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X GET '<BACKEND_URL>/store/products?handle=<HANDLE>'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

As the `handle` of each product is unique, when you pass the handle as a filter you’ll either:

- receive an empty `products` array, meaning the product doesn’t exist;
- or you’ll receive a `products` array with one item being the product you’re looking for. In this case, you can access the product at index `0`.

As explained earlier, make sure to pass the [product pricing parameters](#product-pricing-parameters) to [display the product's price](#display-product-price)

---

## See Also

- [How to use regions in a storefront](../../regions-and-currencies/storefront/use-regions.mdx)
- [How to implement cart functionality](../../carts-and-checkout/storefront/implement-cart.mdx)
