docs/content/advanced/backend/price-lists/use-api.mdx, before:

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# How to Use PriceList APIs

In this document, you’ll learn how to use the PriceList Admin APIs to create, update, and manage prices in a price list.

:::note

This document doesn't cover what price lists are and their basics. If you’re interested to learn about that, check out [this documentation](./index.md) instead.

:::

## Prerequisites

### Medusa Components

It is assumed that you already have a Medusa server installed and set up. If not, you can follow our [quickstart guide](../../../quickstart/quick-start.mdx) to get started.

### JS Client

This guide includes code snippets to send requests to your Medusa server using Medusa’s JS Client, JavaScript’s Fetch API, or cURL.

If you follow the JS Client code blocks, it’s assumed you already have [Medusa’s JS Client](../../../js-client/overview.md) installed and [have created an instance of the client](../../../js-client/overview.md#configuration).

### Medusa React

This guide also includes code snippets to send requests to your Medusa server using Medusa React, among other methods.

If you follow the Medusa React code blocks, it's assumed you already have [Medusa React installed](../../../medusa-react/overview.md) and have [used MedusaProvider higher in your component tree](../../../medusa-react/overview.md#usage).

### Authenticated Admin User

You must be an authenticated admin user before following along with the steps in the tutorial.

You can learn more about [authenticating as an admin user in the API reference](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/admin/#section/Authentication).

---

## Create Price List

When you create a price list, you can specify different conditions to control when the price list can be applied.

In the body of your request, aside from the required fields, you can send the following fields to apply different conditions:

<!-- eslint-skip -->

```js noReport
{
  prices: [
    {
      region_id,
      currency_code,
      min_quantity,
      max_quantity
    }
  ],
  customer_groups: [
    {
      id
    }
  ]
}
```

:::info

You can learn more about what the conditions you can apply on a price list and its prices in this documentation.

:::

For example, sending the following request creates a price list with two prices: one that is applied when the maximum quantity of the product variant in the cart is 3; another is applied when the minimum quantity of the same variant in the cart is 4:

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```jsx
import { PriceListStatus, PriceListType } from "@medusajs/medusa"

medusa.admin.priceLists.create({
  name: "New Price List",
  description: "A new price list",
  type: PriceListType.SALE,
  status: PriceListStatus.ACTIVE,
  prices: [
    {
      amount: 1000,
      variant_id,
      currency_code: "eur",
      max_quantity: 3,
    },
    {
      amount: 1500,
      variant_id,
      currency_code: "eur",
      min_quantity: 4,
    },
  ],
})
.then(({ price_list }) => {
  console.log(price_list.id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { PriceListStatus, PriceListType } from "@medusajs/medusa"
import { useAdminCreatePriceList } from "medusa-react"

const CreatePriceList = () => {
  const createPriceList = useAdminCreatePriceList()
  // ...

  const handleCreate = () => {
    createPriceList.mutate({
      name: "New Price List",
      description: "A new price list",
      type: PriceListType.SALE,
      status: PriceListStatus.ACTIVE,
      prices: [
        {
          amount: 1000,
          variant_id,
          currency_code: "eur",
          max_quantity: 3,
        },
        {
          amount: 1500,
          variant_id,
          currency_code: "eur",
          min_quantity: 4,
        },
      ],
    })
  }

  // ...
}

export default CreatePriceList
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

```jsx
fetch(`<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists`, {
  method: "POST",
  credentials: "include",
  headers: {
    "Content-Type": "application/json",
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    name: "New Price List",
    description: "A new price list",
    type: "sale",
		status: "active",
    prices: [
      {
        amount: 1000,
        variant_id,
        currency_code: "eur",
        max_quantity: 3,
      },
      {
        amount: 1500,
        variant_id,
        currency_code: "eur",
        min_quantity: 4,
      },
    ],
  }),
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ price_list }) => {
  console.log(price_list.id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X POST '<YOUR_SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
    "name": "New Price List",
    "description": "A new price list",
    "type": "sale",
		"status": "active",
    "prices": [
        {
            "amount": 1500,
            "variant_id": "<VARIANT_ID>",
            "max_quantity": 3,
            "currency_code": "eur"
        },
        {
            "amount": 1000,
            "variant_id": "<VARIANT_ID>",
            "currency_code": "eur",
            "min_quantity": 4
        }
    ]
}'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This request returns the created price list.

You can check the full list of request body parameters in the [API reference](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/admin/#tag/Price-List/operation/PostPriceListsPriceList).

---

## Get Price List’s Details

You can retrieve all of a price list’s details using the Get a Price List endpoint:

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```jsx
medusa.admin.priceLists.retrieve(priceListId)
.then(({ price_list }) => {
  console.log(price_list.id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { CustomerGroup } from "@medusajs/medusa"
import { useAdminPriceList } from "medusa-react"

const PriceList = () => {
  const { price_list, isLoading } = useAdminPriceList(priceListId)

  return (
    <div>
      {isLoading && <span>Loading...</span>}
      {price_list && <span>{price_list.name}</span>}
    </div>
  )
}

export default PriceList
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

```jsx
fetch(`<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/${priceListId}`, {
  credentials: "include",
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ price_list }) => {
  console.log(price_list.id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X GET '<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/{id}' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

---

## Update a Price List

After creating a price list, you can update all of its fields including its status, prices, and more using the [Update Price List](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/admin/#tag/Price-List/operation/PostPriceListsPriceListPriceList) endpoint.

For example, by sending the following request the end date of the price list will be updated:

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```jsx
medusa.admin.priceLists.update(priceListId, {
  ends_at: "2022-10-11",
})
.then(({ price_list }) => {
  console.log(price_list.id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { PriceListStatus, PriceListType } from "@medusajs/medusa"
import { useAdminUpdatePriceList } from "medusa-react"

const CreatePriceList = () => {
  const updatePriceList = useAdminUpdatePriceList(priceListId)
  // ...

  const handleUpdate = () => {
    updatePriceList.mutate({
      ends_at: "2022-10-11",
    })
  }

  // ...
}

export default CreatePriceList
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

```jsx
fetch(`<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/${priceListId}`, {
  method: "POST",
  credentials: "include",
  headers: {
    "Content-Type": "application/json",
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    ends_at: "2022-10-11",
  }),
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ price_list }) => {
  console.log(price_list.id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X POST '<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/<PRICE_LIST_ID>' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
    "ends_at": "2022-10-11"
}'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This request returns the updated price list.

For a full list of request body parameters, check out the [API reference](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/admin/#tag/Price-List/operation/PostPriceListsPriceListPriceList).

---

## Manage Prices

### Add Prices

You can add prices to your price list after creating it using the [Update Prices](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/admin/#tag/Price-List/operation/PostPriceListsPriceListPricesBatch) endpoint.

You can also set the `override` request body parameter to `true` to replace the existing prices in the price list.

For example, sending the following request adds a new price to the price list:

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```jsx
medusa.admin.priceLists.addPrices(priceListId, {
  prices: [
    {
      amount: 1200,
      variant_id,
      currency_code: "eur",
    },
  ],
})
.then(({ price_list }) => {
  console.log(price_list.id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { useAdminCreatePriceListPrices } from "medusa-react"

const PriceList = () => {
  const addPrice = useAdminCreatePriceListPrices(priceListId)
  // ...

  const handleAddPrice = () => {
    addPrice.mutate({
      prices: [
        {
          amount: 1200,
          variant_id,
          currency_code: "eur",
        },
      ],
    })
  }

  // ...
}

export default PriceList
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

```jsx
fetch(`<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/${priceListId}/prices/batch`, {
  method: "POST",
  credentials: "include",
  headers: {
    "Content-Type": "application/json",
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    prices: [
	    {
	      amount: 1200,
	      variant_id,
	      currency_code: "eur",
	    },
	  ],
  }),
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ price_list }) => {
  console.log(price_list.id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X POST '<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/<PRICE_LIST_ID>' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
    "prices": [
        {
            "amount": 1200,
            "variant_id": "<VARIANT_ID>",
            "currency_code": "eur"
        }
    ]
}'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This request returns the price list with the updated prices.

For a full list of request body parameters, check out the [API reference](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/admin/#tag/Price-List/operation/PostPriceListsPriceListPricesBatch).

### Delete a Product’s Prices

You can delete all the prices of a product’s variants using the [Delete Product Prices](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/admin/#tag/Price-List/operation/DeletePriceListsPriceListProductsProductPrices) endpoint:

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```jsx
medusa.admin.priceLists.deleteProductPrices(priceListId, productId)
.then(({ ids, object, deleted }) => {
  console.log(ids.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { useAdminDeletePriceListProductPrices } from "medusa-react"

const PriceList = () => {
  const deletePrices = useAdminDeletePriceListProductPrices(
    priceListId,
    productId
  )
  // ...

  const handleDeletePrices = () => {
    deletePrices.mutate()
  }

  // ...
}

export default PriceList
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

<!-- eslint-disable max-len -->

```jsx
fetch(
  `<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/${priceListId}/products/${productId}/prices`,
  {
    method: "DELETE",
    credentials: "include",
  }
)
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ ids, object, deleted }) => {
  console.log(ids.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X DELETE '<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/<PRICE_LIST_ID>/products/<PRODUCT_ID>/prices' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This request returns the IDs of the deleted prices.

### Delete a Variant’s Prices

You can delete all the prices of a variant using the [Delete Variant Prices](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/admin/#tag/Price-List/operation/DeletePriceListsPriceListVariantsVariantPrices) endpoint:

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```jsx
medusa.admin.priceLists.deleteVariantPrices(priceListId, variantId)
.then(({ ids, object, deleted }) => {
  console.log(ids)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { useAdminDeletePriceListVariantPrices } from "medusa-react"

const PriceList = () => {
  const deleteVariantPrices = useAdminDeletePriceListVariantPrices(
    priceListId, 
    variantId
  )
  // ...

  const handleDeletePrices = () => {
    deleteVariantPrices.mutate()
  }

  // ...
}

export default PriceList
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

<!-- eslint-disable max-len -->

```jsx
fetch(
  `<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/${priceListId}/variants/${variantId}/prices`,
  {
    method: "DELETE",
    credentials: "include",
  }
)
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ ids, object, deleted }) => {
  console.log(ids.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X DELETE '<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/<PRICE_LIST_ID>/variants/<VARIANT_ID>/prices' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This request returns the IDs of the deleted prices.

---

## Delete Price List

You can delete a price list, and subsequently all prices defined in it, using the [Delete Price List](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/admin/#tag/Price-List/operation/DeletePriceListsPriceList) endpoint:

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```jsx
medusa.admin.priceLists.delete(priceListId)
.then(({ id, object, deleted }) => {
  console.log(id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { useAdminDeletePriceList } from "medusa-react"

const PriceList = () => {
  const deletePriceList = useAdminDeletePriceList(priceListId)
  // ...

  const handleDeletePriceList = () => {
    deletePriceList.mutate()
  }

  // ...
}

export default PriceList
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

```jsx
fetch(`<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/${priceListId}`, {
  method: "DELETE",
  credentials: "include",
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ id, object, deleted }) => {
  console.log(id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X DELETE '<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/<PRICE_LIST_ID>' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This request returns the ID of the deleted price list.

---

## See Also

- [Price Lists Overview](./index.md).
- [Price Selection Strategy Overview](../price-selection-strategy/index.md).

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/advanced/backend/price-lists/use-api.mdx, after:

---
description: 'Learn how to implement price list functionalities for admins using the REST APIs. This includes how to create a price list, retriving price list details, managing prices in the price list, and more.'
addHowToData: true
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# How to Manage PriceLists

In this document, you’ll learn how to use the PriceList Admin APIs to create, update, and manage prices in a price list.

:::note

This document doesn't cover what price lists are and their basics. If you’re interested to learn about that, check out [this documentation](./index.md) instead.

:::

## Prerequisites

### Medusa Components

It is assumed that you already have a Medusa server installed and set up. If not, you can follow our [quickstart guide](../../../quickstart/quick-start.mdx) to get started.

### JS Client

This guide includes code snippets to send requests to your Medusa server using Medusa’s JS Client, JavaScript’s Fetch API, or cURL.

If you follow the JS Client code blocks, it’s assumed you already have [Medusa’s JS Client](../../../js-client/overview.md) installed and [have created an instance of the client](../../../js-client/overview.md#configuration).

### Medusa React

This guide also includes code snippets to send requests to your Medusa server using Medusa React, among other methods.

If you follow the Medusa React code blocks, it's assumed you already have [Medusa React installed](../../../medusa-react/overview.md) and have [used MedusaProvider higher in your component tree](../../../medusa-react/overview.md#usage).

### Authenticated Admin User

You must be an authenticated admin user before following along with the steps in the tutorial.

You can learn more about [authenticating as an admin user in the API reference](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/admin/#section/Authentication).

---

## Create Price List

When you create a price list, you can specify different conditions to control when the price list can be applied.

In the body of your request, aside from the required fields, you can send the following fields to apply different conditions:

<!-- eslint-skip -->

```js noReport
{
  prices: [
    {
      region_id,
      currency_code,
      min_quantity,
      max_quantity
    }
  ],
  customer_groups: [
    {
      id
    }
  ]
}
```

:::info

You can learn more about what the conditions you can apply on a price list and its prices in this documentation.

:::

For example, sending the following request creates a price list with two prices: one that is applied when the maximum quantity of the product variant in the cart is 3; another is applied when the minimum quantity of the same variant in the cart is 4:

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```jsx
import { PriceListStatus, PriceListType } from "@medusajs/medusa"

medusa.admin.priceLists.create({
  name: "New Price List",
  description: "A new price list",
  type: PriceListType.SALE,
  status: PriceListStatus.ACTIVE,
  prices: [
    {
      amount: 1000,
      variant_id,
      currency_code: "eur",
      max_quantity: 3,
    },
    {
      amount: 1500,
      variant_id,
      currency_code: "eur",
      min_quantity: 4,
    },
  ],
})
.then(({ price_list }) => {
  console.log(price_list.id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { PriceListStatus, PriceListType } from "@medusajs/medusa"
import { useAdminCreatePriceList } from "medusa-react"

const CreatePriceList = () => {
  const createPriceList = useAdminCreatePriceList()
  // ...

  const handleCreate = () => {
    createPriceList.mutate({
      name: "New Price List",
      description: "A new price list",
      type: PriceListType.SALE,
      status: PriceListStatus.ACTIVE,
      prices: [
        {
          amount: 1000,
          variant_id,
          currency_code: "eur",
          max_quantity: 3,
        },
        {
          amount: 1500,
          variant_id,
          currency_code: "eur",
          min_quantity: 4,
        },
      ],
    })
  }

  // ...
}

export default CreatePriceList
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

```jsx
fetch(`<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists`, {
  method: "POST",
  credentials: "include",
  headers: {
    "Content-Type": "application/json",
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    name: "New Price List",
    description: "A new price list",
    type: "sale",
		status: "active",
    prices: [
      {
        amount: 1000,
        variant_id,
        currency_code: "eur",
        max_quantity: 3,
      },
      {
        amount: 1500,
        variant_id,
        currency_code: "eur",
        min_quantity: 4,
      },
    ],
  }),
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ price_list }) => {
  console.log(price_list.id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X POST '<YOUR_SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
    "name": "New Price List",
    "description": "A new price list",
    "type": "sale",
		"status": "active",
    "prices": [
        {
            "amount": 1500,
            "variant_id": "<VARIANT_ID>",
            "max_quantity": 3,
            "currency_code": "eur"
        },
        {
            "amount": 1000,
            "variant_id": "<VARIANT_ID>",
            "currency_code": "eur",
            "min_quantity": 4
        }
    ]
}'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This request returns the created price list.

You can check the full list of request body parameters in the [API reference](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/admin/#tag/Price-List/operation/PostPriceListsPriceList).

---

## Get Price List’s Details

You can retrieve all of a price list’s details using the Get a Price List endpoint:

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```jsx
medusa.admin.priceLists.retrieve(priceListId)
.then(({ price_list }) => {
  console.log(price_list.id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { CustomerGroup } from "@medusajs/medusa"
import { useAdminPriceList } from "medusa-react"

const PriceList = () => {
  const { price_list, isLoading } = useAdminPriceList(priceListId)

  return (
    <div>
      {isLoading && <span>Loading...</span>}
      {price_list && <span>{price_list.name}</span>}
    </div>
  )
}

export default PriceList
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

```jsx
fetch(`<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/${priceListId}`, {
  credentials: "include",
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ price_list }) => {
  console.log(price_list.id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X GET '<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/{id}' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

---

## Update a Price List

After creating a price list, you can update all of its fields including its status, prices, and more using the [Update Price List](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/admin/#tag/Price-List/operation/PostPriceListsPriceListPriceList) endpoint.

For example, by sending the following request the end date of the price list will be updated:

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```jsx
medusa.admin.priceLists.update(priceListId, {
  ends_at: "2022-10-11",
})
.then(({ price_list }) => {
  console.log(price_list.id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { PriceListStatus, PriceListType } from "@medusajs/medusa"
import { useAdminUpdatePriceList } from "medusa-react"

const CreatePriceList = () => {
  const updatePriceList = useAdminUpdatePriceList(priceListId)
  // ...

  const handleUpdate = () => {
    updatePriceList.mutate({
      ends_at: "2022-10-11",
    })
  }

  // ...
}

export default CreatePriceList
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

```jsx
fetch(`<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/${priceListId}`, {
  method: "POST",
  credentials: "include",
  headers: {
    "Content-Type": "application/json",
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    ends_at: "2022-10-11",
  }),
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ price_list }) => {
  console.log(price_list.id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X POST '<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/<PRICE_LIST_ID>' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
    "ends_at": "2022-10-11"
}'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This request returns the updated price list.

For a full list of request body parameters, check out the [API reference](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/admin/#tag/Price-List/operation/PostPriceListsPriceListPriceList).

---

## Manage Prices

### Add Prices

You can add prices to your price list after creating it using the [Update Prices](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/admin/#tag/Price-List/operation/PostPriceListsPriceListPricesBatch) endpoint.

You can also set the `override` request body parameter to `true` to replace the existing prices in the price list.

For example, sending the following request adds a new price to the price list:

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```jsx
medusa.admin.priceLists.addPrices(priceListId, {
  prices: [
    {
      amount: 1200,
      variant_id,
      currency_code: "eur",
    },
  ],
})
.then(({ price_list }) => {
  console.log(price_list.id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { useAdminCreatePriceListPrices } from "medusa-react"

const PriceList = () => {
  const addPrice = useAdminCreatePriceListPrices(priceListId)
  // ...

  const handleAddPrice = () => {
    addPrice.mutate({
      prices: [
        {
          amount: 1200,
          variant_id,
          currency_code: "eur",
        },
      ],
    })
  }

  // ...
}

export default PriceList
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

```jsx
fetch(`<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/${priceListId}/prices/batch`, {
  method: "POST",
  credentials: "include",
  headers: {
    "Content-Type": "application/json",
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    prices: [
	    {
	      amount: 1200,
	      variant_id,
	      currency_code: "eur",
	    },
	  ],
  }),
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ price_list }) => {
  console.log(price_list.id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X POST '<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/<PRICE_LIST_ID>' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
    "prices": [
        {
            "amount": 1200,
            "variant_id": "<VARIANT_ID>",
            "currency_code": "eur"
        }
    ]
}'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This request returns the price list with the updated prices.

For a full list of request body parameters, check out the [API reference](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/admin/#tag/Price-List/operation/PostPriceListsPriceListPricesBatch).

### Delete a Product’s Prices

You can delete all the prices of a product’s variants using the [Delete Product Prices](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/admin/#tag/Price-List/operation/DeletePriceListsPriceListProductsProductPrices) endpoint:

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```jsx
medusa.admin.priceLists.deleteProductPrices(priceListId, productId)
.then(({ ids, object, deleted }) => {
  console.log(ids.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { useAdminDeletePriceListProductPrices } from "medusa-react"

const PriceList = () => {
  const deletePrices = useAdminDeletePriceListProductPrices(
    priceListId,
    productId
  )
  // ...

  const handleDeletePrices = () => {
    deletePrices.mutate()
  }

  // ...
}

export default PriceList
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

<!-- eslint-disable max-len -->

```jsx
fetch(
  `<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/${priceListId}/products/${productId}/prices`,
  {
    method: "DELETE",
    credentials: "include",
  }
)
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ ids, object, deleted }) => {
  console.log(ids.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X DELETE '<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/<PRICE_LIST_ID>/products/<PRODUCT_ID>/prices' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This request returns the IDs of the deleted prices.

### Delete a Variant’s Prices

You can delete all the prices of a variant using the [Delete Variant Prices](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/admin/#tag/Price-List/operation/DeletePriceListsPriceListVariantsVariantPrices) endpoint:

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```jsx
medusa.admin.priceLists.deleteVariantPrices(priceListId, variantId)
.then(({ ids, object, deleted }) => {
  console.log(ids)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { useAdminDeletePriceListVariantPrices } from "medusa-react"

const PriceList = () => {
  const deleteVariantPrices = useAdminDeletePriceListVariantPrices(
    priceListId, 
    variantId
  )
  // ...

  const handleDeletePrices = () => {
    deleteVariantPrices.mutate()
  }

  // ...
}

export default PriceList
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

<!-- eslint-disable max-len -->

```jsx
fetch(
  `<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/${priceListId}/variants/${variantId}/prices`,
  {
    method: "DELETE",
    credentials: "include",
  }
)
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ ids, object, deleted }) => {
  console.log(ids.length)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X DELETE '<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/<PRICE_LIST_ID>/variants/<VARIANT_ID>/prices' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This request returns the IDs of the deleted prices.

---

## Delete Price List

You can delete a price list, and subsequently all prices defined in it, using the [Delete Price List](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/admin/#tag/Price-List/operation/DeletePriceListsPriceList) endpoint:

<Tabs groupId="request-type" wrapperClassName="code-tabs">
<TabItem value="client" label="Medusa JS Client" default>

```jsx
medusa.admin.priceLists.delete(priceListId)
.then(({ id, object, deleted }) => {
  console.log(id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="medusa-react" label="Medusa React">

```tsx
import { useAdminDeletePriceList } from "medusa-react"

const PriceList = () => {
  const deletePriceList = useAdminDeletePriceList(priceListId)
  // ...

  const handleDeletePriceList = () => {
    deletePriceList.mutate()
  }

  // ...
}

export default PriceList
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fetch" label="Fetch API">

```jsx
fetch(`<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/${priceListId}`, {
  method: "DELETE",
  credentials: "include",
})
.then((response) => response.json())
.then(({ id, object, deleted }) => {
  console.log(id)
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```bash
curl -L -X DELETE '<SERVER_URL>/admin/price-lists/<PRICE_LIST_ID>' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This request returns the ID of the deleted price list.

---

## See Also

- [Price Lists Overview](./index.md).
- [Price Selection Strategy Overview](../price-selection-strategy/index.md).
