docs/content/user-guide/products/collections.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Collections

In this document, you’ll learn how to create a new collection, edit an existing collection, delete a collection, and more.

## Create a Collection

To create a collection:

1. Go to the Products page.
2. Click on the Collections header at the top left of the products list.
3. Click on the New collection button.
4. In the form that opens:
    1. You're required to enter a name for the collection
    2. You can optionally specify the handle of the collection.
    3. To add metadata, click on the Add Metadata button.
    4. To remove metadata, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon next to it.
5. Once done, click on the “Publish collection” button.

---

## View a Collection’s Details

To view a collection’s details:

1. Go to the Products page.
2. Click on the Collections header at the top left of the products list.
3. From the table, choose the collection you want to view.

---

## Edit a Collection

To edit a collection:

1. Go to the Collection’s Details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the first section.
3. Choose Edit Collection from the dropdown.
4. In the new form that opens, edit any of the collection details.
5. Once done, click on the “Save collection” button.

---

## Manage a Collection’s Products

### Add Products to a Collection

To add products to a collection:

1. Go to the Collection’s Details page.
2. In the Products section, click on the Edit Products button.
3. From the list of products, check the box next to the products you want to add to the collection.
4. Once done, click on the Save button.

### Remove a Product from a Collection

:::info

Removing a product from a collection doesn't delete the product from Medusa.

:::

To remove a product from a collection:

1. Go to the Collection’s Details page.
2. In the Products section, find the product you want to remove from the collection.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon at the right side of the product.
4. Confirm removing the product by clicking the “Yes, remove" button in the pop-up.

---

## Delete a Collection

:::warning

Deleting a collection can’t be undone. You will lose all data related to the collection. Products in the collection will not be lost.

:::

To delete a collection:

1. Go to the Collections page.
2. Find the collection you want to delete, then click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at its right.
3. Choose Delete from the dropdown.
4. Confirm deleting the collection by clicking the “Yes, confirm" button in the pop-up.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/products/collections.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
description: 'This user guide explains how to manage collections on the Medusa admin. Learn how to create, edit, and delete collections.'
addHowToData: true
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Collections

In this document, you’ll learn how to create a new collection, edit an existing collection, delete a collection, and more.

## Create a Collection

To create a collection:

1. Go to the Products page.
2. Click on the Collections header at the top left of the products list.
3. Click on the New collection button.
4. In the form that opens:
    1. You're required to enter a name for the collection
    2. You can optionally specify the handle of the collection.
    3. To add metadata, click on the Add Metadata button.
    4. To remove metadata, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon next to it.
5. Once done, click on the “Publish collection” button.

---

## View a Collection’s Details

To view a collection’s details:

1. Go to the Products page.
2. Click on the Collections header at the top left of the products list.
3. From the table, choose the collection you want to view.

---

## Edit a Collection

To edit a collection:

1. Go to the Collection’s Details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the first section.
3. Choose Edit Collection from the dropdown.
4. In the new form that opens, edit any of the collection details.
5. Once done, click on the “Save collection” button.

---

## Manage a Collection’s Products

### Add Products to a Collection

To add products to a collection:

1. Go to the Collection’s Details page.
2. In the Products section, click on the Edit Products button.
3. From the list of products, check the box next to the products you want to add to the collection.
4. Once done, click on the Save button.

### Remove a Product from a Collection

:::info

Removing a product from a collection doesn't delete the product from Medusa.

:::

To remove a product from a collection:

1. Go to the Collection’s Details page.
2. In the Products section, find the product you want to remove from the collection.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon at the right side of the product.
4. Confirm removing the product by clicking the “Yes, remove" button in the pop-up.

---

## Delete a Collection

:::warning

Deleting a collection can’t be undone. You will lose all data related to the collection. Products in the collection will not be lost.

:::

To delete a collection:

1. Go to the Collections page.
2. Find the collection you want to delete, then click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at its right.
3. Choose Delete from the dropdown.
4. Confirm deleting the collection by clicking the “Yes, confirm" button in the pop-up.
