docs/content/add-plugins/contentful/index.md, before:

# Contentful

In this document, you’ll learn how to integrate a Medusa server with Contentful to add rich Content Management System (CMS) functionalities

## Overview

[Contentful](https://www.contentful.com/) is a headless CMS service that allows developers to integrate rich CMS functionalities into any platform.

By integrating Contentful to Medusa, you can benefit from powerful features in your ecommerce store including detailed product CMS details, easy-to-use interface to use for static content and pages, localization, and much more.

---

## Prerequisites

### Needed Accounts

- [Contentful](https://www.contentful.com/sign-up/) account with a space created. A space is created by default when you create a new account.

### Required Tools

- PostgreSQL with an empty database created. You can follow [this documentation to learn how to install it for your operating system](../../tutorial/0-set-up-your-development-environment.mdx#postgres).
- Redis. You can follow [this documentation to learn how to install it for your operating system](../../tutorial/0-set-up-your-development-environment.mdx#redis).
- Git’s CLI tool. You can follow [this documentation to learn how to install it for your operating system](../../tutorial/0-set-up-your-development-environment.mdx#git).
- Gatsby’s CLI tool. You can follow [this documentation to install it](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/reference/gatsby-cli/#how-to-use-gatsby-cli).
- Medusa’s CLI tool. You can follow [this documentation to install it](../../cli/reference.md#how-to-install-cli-tool).

---

## Install Medusa Server Using Contentful Starter

Instead of using the default Medusa Server starter, you must use the [Contentful starter](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa-starter-contentful) to install a server that is ready to be used with Contentful. This server contains all the necessary files to make the integration work.

In your terminal, run the following command to install the server:

```bash
medusa new medusa-contentful https://github.com/medusajs/medusa-starter-contentful
```

This installs a new Medusa server in the directory `medusa-contentful`.

### Add Contentful Environment Variables

Change to the `medusa-contentful` directory. In `.env` you’ll find three variables:

```bash title=.env
CONTENTFUL_SPACE_ID=
CONTENTFUL_ACCESS_TOKEN=
CONTENTFUL_ENV=
```

#### Value of CONTENTFUL_ENV

Set the value for `CONTENTFUL_ENV` to `master`.

#### Value of CONTENTFUL_SPACE_ID

To retrieve the value of `CONTENTFUL_SPACE_ID`, go to your [Contentful Space dashboard](https://app.contentful.com/). Then, choose Settings in the navigation bar and select API keys from the dropdown.

![Click on Settings then select API keys from the dropdown](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001360/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/hvp6zo5_uaqtmi.png)

On the APIs page, click Add API Key.

![Click on the Add API Key button](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001375/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/KlH2BDg_fiqd80.png)

In the form, enter a name for the API key and click Save.

![A form with the name of API key entered](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001385/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/hOG1RqM_tmctae.png)

Then, copy the value of Space ID and set it as the value of `CONTENTFUL_SPACE_ID`.

#### Value of CONTENTFUL_ACCESS_TOKEN

Go back to the API Keys page and click on the Content management tokens tab.

![API Keys page with Content management tokens tab opened](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001394/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/7nWx1xk_co8ykw.png)

Click on Generate personal token. A pop-up will open where you have to enter a name for the token.

![Pop up model for Personal Access Token with token name entered](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001403/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/y6R81pH_yhbg1u.png)

Once you click Generate, a personal access token will be generated. Use it to set the value of `CONTENTFUL_ACCESS_TOKEN`.

:::warning

Once you close the pop-up, you won’t be able to get the value of the personal access token again. Make sure to copy it first.

:::

### Configure Redis

In `.env` set the value of your Redis URL:

```bash
REDIS_URL=<YOUR_REDIS_URL>
```

Where `<YOUR_REDIS_URL>` is the URL of your Redis service.

:::tip

The default Redis URL is `redis://localhost:6379`.

:::

### Configure PostgreSQL

In `.env` set the value of your PostgreSQL URL:

```bash
DATABASE_URL=<YOUR_DB_URL>
```

Where `<YOUR_DB_URL>` is the URL of your PostgreSQL database.

:::tip

You can find the format of the PostgreSQL database URL in [PostgreSQL’s documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-connect.html).

:::

Then, in `medusa-config.js` in the exported object, comment out or remove the SQLite database configurations and add the PostgreSQL database configurations:

```jsx title=medusa-config.js
module.exports = {
  projectConfig: {
    // ...
    database_url: DATABASE_URL,
    database_type: "postgres",
    // REMOVE OR COMMENT OUT THE BELOW:
    // database_database: "./medusa-db.sql",
    // database_type: "sqlite",
  },
}
```

### Migrate Content Types to Contentful

The Contentful starter provides the necessary scripts to create content types in your Contentful space.

Run the following commands to migrate the content types into Contentful:

```bash
npm run migrate:contentful
```

Once this command finishes executing, in your Contentful Space dashboard click on Content Model in the navigation bar. You should see a list of new content models added.

![Content Model page filled with new content models](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001419/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/ZDJPNkr_avr7gy.png)

### Seed Content to Contentful

The next step is to seed the Contentful Space with some content data.

Run the following command to seed some data into it:

```bash
npm run seed:contentful
```

After this command finishes running, in your Contentful Space dashboard click on Content in the navigation bar. You should see a list of new content added.

![Content page filled with new content](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001429/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/bfgFxPg_jb4zok.png)

### (Optional) Seed Medusa Database

This step seeds your Medusa database with demo data to easily add products as well as other data to your Medusa server.

Run the following command to seed the Medusa database:

```bash
npm run seed
```

### Start the Server

To start the server run the following command:

```bash
npm run start
```

If you seeded the database with demo data, you should see that events related to the products are triggered.

![Seed the database](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001440/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/ci4accp_okaro3.png)

The Contentful integration ensures a two-way sync between the Medusa server and Contentful. So, when new products are added to Medusa, these products will be added to your Contentful Space as well.

---

## (Optional) Add Products with the Medusa Admin

Using the Medusa admin, you can add products to your Medusa server. This will trigger product events that subsequently add these products to Contentful.

---

## Manage Contentful Data

### Publish Products

Products added through the integration with the Medusa server are by default saved as drafts. To show them on the storefront, you must set them as published.

To do that, open your Contentful Space Dashboard and click on Content in the Navigation bar. Then, change Any to Product in the select field next to the search bar. This shows only the content of the type Product, rather than all content.

Click on the checkbox at the top of the table to select all products then click Publish to publish these products.

![Select all products' checkboxes and click the publish button](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001452/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/3NrH5tJ_f16iym.png)

### Added Featured Products

On the homepage of the storefront, there’s a featured products tile that shows a set of products. Before running the storefront, you must add at least one product to the list.

To do that, open your Contentful Space Dashboard and click on Content in the Navigation bar. Make sure the select field next to the search bar is set to Any and search for Featured Products. You should find one content of the type Tile Section.

![Search for the featured products tile section](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001462/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/2gS0ozY_b2tpsb.png)

Click on it. You should find on the page an empty Tiles section where you can add tiles and products.

![On the content's page find the empty tiles section](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001472/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/inuN1OB_ipiszl.png)

Click on Add content then on Add existing content and pick some of the products you want to show on the homepage.

![Add at least 1 product as a tile](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001500/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/N5m4LbF_fb97tm.png)

Once you’re done adding products, click on Publish changes in the right sidebar.

![Click on the publish changes button on the right](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001508/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/URNpkXq_cb5ppp.png)

---

## Setup Gatsby Storefront

In this section, you’ll set up the Gatsby storefront of your Medusa server.

In your terminal in a different directory of the Medusa server, run the following command:

```bash
gatsby new medusa-contentful-storefront https://github.com/medusajs/medusa-contentful-storefront
```

This will install the storefront in the directory `medusa-contentful-storefront`.

### Set Contentful Environment Variables

Change to the newly created directory and rename `.env.template`:

```bash
mv .env.template .env
```

Then, open `.env`. You should find the following environment variables:

```bash title=.env
CONTENTFUL_SPACE_ID=
CONTENTFUL_ACCESS_TOKEN=
```

The value of `CONTENTFUL_SPACE_ID` is the same value you [retrieved while setting up the Medusa server](#value-of-contentful_space_id).

To retrieve the value of `CONTENTFUL_ACCESS_TOKEN`, on your Contentful Space dashboard click on Settings then API keys. Then, choose the API key you created in the previous section.

You should find the field "Content Delivery API - access token”. Copy its value and set it as the value of `CONTENTFUL_ACCESS_TOKEN`.

![Copy the value of the Content Delivery API access token](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001522/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/a7dl7DI_mziogm.png)

### Start Storefront

Make sure the Medusa server is still running. Then, start the storefront:

```bash
npm run start
```

This starts the storefront at `localhost:8000`. Open it in your browser and you should see on the homepage the Featured Product section with the products you chose on Contentful.

![The storefront with the featured products section](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001537/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/f6xwYbS_w1v993.png)

---

## Make Changes to Content

You can update the CMS content of your storefront in your Contentful Space. This includes the CMS pages or product details.

:::note

If you make changes to the data while your Gatsby storefront is running, the changes are not reflected instantly. That’s because the data is fetched from Contentful during build time. Instead, you must restart your Gatsby storefront to see the changes you make.

:::

---

## What’s Next

Learn [How to customize your Contentful server and storefront](./customize-contentful.md).

## See Also

- How to deploy your Medusa server to [Heroku](../../deployments/server/deploying-on-heroku.mdx), [Qovery](../../deployments/server/deploying-on-qovery.md), or [DigitalOcean](../../deployments/server/deploying-on-digital-ocean.md).
- [How to deploy your Gatsby storefront to Netlify](../../deployments/storefront/deploying-gatsby-on-netlify.md).

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/add-plugins/contentful/index.md, after:

---
description: 'Learn how to integrate Contentful with the Medusa server and a Gatsby storefront. Contentful is a headless CMS server that provides rich CMS functionalities.'
addHowToData: true
---

# Contentful

In this document, you’ll learn how to integrate a Medusa server with Contentful to add rich Content Management System (CMS) functionalities

## Overview

[Contentful](https://www.contentful.com/) is a headless CMS service that allows developers to integrate rich CMS functionalities into any platform.

By integrating Contentful to Medusa, you can benefit from powerful features in your ecommerce store including detailed product CMS details, easy-to-use interface to use for static content and pages, localization, and much more.

---

## Prerequisites

### Needed Accounts

- [Contentful](https://www.contentful.com/sign-up/) account with a space created. A space is created by default when you create a new account.

### Required Tools

- PostgreSQL with an empty database created. You can follow [this documentation to learn how to install it for your operating system](../../tutorial/0-set-up-your-development-environment.mdx#postgres).
- Redis. You can follow [this documentation to learn how to install it for your operating system](../../tutorial/0-set-up-your-development-environment.mdx#redis).
- Git’s CLI tool. You can follow [this documentation to learn how to install it for your operating system](../../tutorial/0-set-up-your-development-environment.mdx#git).
- Gatsby’s CLI tool. You can follow [this documentation to install it](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/reference/gatsby-cli/#how-to-use-gatsby-cli).
- Medusa’s CLI tool. You can follow [this documentation to install it](../../cli/reference.md#how-to-install-cli-tool).

---

## Install Medusa Server Using Contentful Starter

Instead of using the default Medusa Server starter, you must use the [Contentful starter](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa-starter-contentful) to install a server that is ready to be used with Contentful. This server contains all the necessary files to make the integration work.

In your terminal, run the following command to install the server:

```bash
medusa new medusa-contentful https://github.com/medusajs/medusa-starter-contentful
```

This installs a new Medusa server in the directory `medusa-contentful`.

### Add Contentful Environment Variables

Change to the `medusa-contentful` directory. In `.env` you’ll find three variables:

```bash title=.env
CONTENTFUL_SPACE_ID=
CONTENTFUL_ACCESS_TOKEN=
CONTENTFUL_ENV=
```

#### Value of CONTENTFUL_ENV

Set the value for `CONTENTFUL_ENV` to `master`.

#### Value of CONTENTFUL_SPACE_ID

To retrieve the value of `CONTENTFUL_SPACE_ID`, go to your [Contentful Space dashboard](https://app.contentful.com/). Then, choose Settings in the navigation bar and select API keys from the dropdown.

![Click on Settings then select API keys from the dropdown](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001360/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/hvp6zo5_uaqtmi.png)

On the APIs page, click Add API Key.

![Click on the Add API Key button](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001375/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/KlH2BDg_fiqd80.png)

In the form, enter a name for the API key and click Save.

![A form with the name of API key entered](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001385/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/hOG1RqM_tmctae.png)

Then, copy the value of Space ID and set it as the value of `CONTENTFUL_SPACE_ID`.

#### Value of CONTENTFUL_ACCESS_TOKEN

Go back to the API Keys page and click on the Content management tokens tab.

![API Keys page with Content management tokens tab opened](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001394/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/7nWx1xk_co8ykw.png)

Click on Generate personal token. A pop-up will open where you have to enter a name for the token.

![Pop up model for Personal Access Token with token name entered](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001403/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/y6R81pH_yhbg1u.png)

Once you click Generate, a personal access token will be generated. Use it to set the value of `CONTENTFUL_ACCESS_TOKEN`.

:::warning

Once you close the pop-up, you won’t be able to get the value of the personal access token again. Make sure to copy it first.

:::

### Configure Redis

In `.env` set the value of your Redis URL:

```bash
REDIS_URL=<YOUR_REDIS_URL>
```

Where `<YOUR_REDIS_URL>` is the URL of your Redis service.

:::tip

The default Redis URL is `redis://localhost:6379`.

:::

### Configure PostgreSQL

In `.env` set the value of your PostgreSQL URL:

```bash
DATABASE_URL=<YOUR_DB_URL>
```

Where `<YOUR_DB_URL>` is the URL of your PostgreSQL database.

:::tip

You can find the format of the PostgreSQL database URL in [PostgreSQL’s documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-connect.html).

:::

Then, in `medusa-config.js` in the exported object, comment out or remove the SQLite database configurations and add the PostgreSQL database configurations:

```jsx title=medusa-config.js
module.exports = {
  projectConfig: {
    // ...
    database_url: DATABASE_URL,
    database_type: "postgres",
    // REMOVE OR COMMENT OUT THE BELOW:
    // database_database: "./medusa-db.sql",
    // database_type: "sqlite",
  },
}
```

### Migrate Content Types to Contentful

The Contentful starter provides the necessary scripts to create content types in your Contentful space.

Run the following commands to migrate the content types into Contentful:

```bash
npm run migrate:contentful
```

Once this command finishes executing, in your Contentful Space dashboard click on Content Model in the navigation bar. You should see a list of new content models added.

![Content Model page filled with new content models](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001419/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/ZDJPNkr_avr7gy.png)

### Seed Content to Contentful

The next step is to seed the Contentful Space with some content data.

Run the following command to seed some data into it:

```bash
npm run seed:contentful
```

After this command finishes running, in your Contentful Space dashboard click on Content in the navigation bar. You should see a list of new content added.

![Content page filled with new content](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001429/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/bfgFxPg_jb4zok.png)

### (Optional) Seed Medusa Database

This step seeds your Medusa database with demo data to easily add products as well as other data to your Medusa server.

Run the following command to seed the Medusa database:

```bash
npm run seed
```

### Start the Server

To start the server run the following command:

```bash
npm run start
```

If you seeded the database with demo data, you should see that events related to the products are triggered.

![Seed the database](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001440/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/ci4accp_okaro3.png)

The Contentful integration ensures a two-way sync between the Medusa server and Contentful. So, when new products are added to Medusa, these products will be added to your Contentful Space as well.

---

## (Optional) Add Products with the Medusa Admin

Using the Medusa admin, you can add products to your Medusa server. This will trigger product events that subsequently add these products to Contentful.

---

## Manage Contentful Data

### Publish Products

Products added through the integration with the Medusa server are by default saved as drafts. To show them on the storefront, you must set them as published.

To do that, open your Contentful Space Dashboard and click on Content in the Navigation bar. Then, change Any to Product in the select field next to the search bar. This shows only the content of the type Product, rather than all content.

Click on the checkbox at the top of the table to select all products then click Publish to publish these products.

![Select all products' checkboxes and click the publish button](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001452/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/3NrH5tJ_f16iym.png)

### Added Featured Products

On the homepage of the storefront, there’s a featured products tile that shows a set of products. Before running the storefront, you must add at least one product to the list.

To do that, open your Contentful Space Dashboard and click on Content in the Navigation bar. Make sure the select field next to the search bar is set to Any and search for Featured Products. You should find one content of the type Tile Section.

![Search for the featured products tile section](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001462/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/2gS0ozY_b2tpsb.png)

Click on it. You should find on the page an empty Tiles section where you can add tiles and products.

![On the content's page find the empty tiles section](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001472/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/inuN1OB_ipiszl.png)

Click on Add content then on Add existing content and pick some of the products you want to show on the homepage.

![Add at least 1 product as a tile](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001500/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/N5m4LbF_fb97tm.png)

Once you’re done adding products, click on Publish changes in the right sidebar.

![Click on the publish changes button on the right](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001508/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/URNpkXq_cb5ppp.png)

---

## Setup Gatsby Storefront

In this section, you’ll set up the Gatsby storefront of your Medusa server.

In your terminal in a different directory of the Medusa server, run the following command:

```bash
gatsby new medusa-contentful-storefront https://github.com/medusajs/medusa-contentful-storefront
```

This will install the storefront in the directory `medusa-contentful-storefront`.

### Set Contentful Environment Variables

Change to the newly created directory and rename `.env.template`:

```bash
mv .env.template .env
```

Then, open `.env`. You should find the following environment variables:

```bash title=.env
CONTENTFUL_SPACE_ID=
CONTENTFUL_ACCESS_TOKEN=
```

The value of `CONTENTFUL_SPACE_ID` is the same value you [retrieved while setting up the Medusa server](#value-of-contentful_space_id).

To retrieve the value of `CONTENTFUL_ACCESS_TOKEN`, on your Contentful Space dashboard click on Settings then API keys. Then, choose the API key you created in the previous section.

You should find the field "Content Delivery API - access token”. Copy its value and set it as the value of `CONTENTFUL_ACCESS_TOKEN`.

![Copy the value of the Content Delivery API access token](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001522/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/a7dl7DI_mziogm.png)

### Start Storefront

Make sure the Medusa server is still running. Then, start the storefront:

```bash
npm run start
```

This starts the storefront at `localhost:8000`. Open it in your browser and you should see on the homepage the Featured Product section with the products you chose on Contentful.

![The storefront with the featured products section](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1668001537/Medusa%20Docs/Contentful/f6xwYbS_w1v993.png)

---

## Make Changes to Content

You can update the CMS content of your storefront in your Contentful Space. This includes the CMS pages or product details.

:::note

If you make changes to the data while your Gatsby storefront is running, the changes are not reflected instantly. That’s because the data is fetched from Contentful during build time. Instead, you must restart your Gatsby storefront to see the changes you make.

:::

---

## What’s Next

Learn [How to customize your Contentful server and storefront](./customize-contentful.md).

## See Also

- How to deploy your Medusa server to [Heroku](../../deployments/server/deploying-on-heroku.mdx), [Qovery](../../deployments/server/deploying-on-qovery.md), or [DigitalOcean](../../deployments/server/deploying-on-digital-ocean.md).
- [How to deploy your Gatsby storefront to Netlify](../../deployments/storefront/deploying-gatsby-on-netlify.md).
