packages/gatsby-source-medusa/README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.medusajs.com">
    <img alt="Medusa" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7554214/129161578-19b83dc8-fac5-4520-bd48-53cba676edd2.png" width="100" />
  </a>
</p>
<h1 align="center">
  gatsby-source-medusa
</h1>
<p align="center">
Medusa is an open-source headless commerce engine that enables developers to create amazing digital commerce experiences. This is a Gatsby source plugin for building websites using Medusa as a data source.
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/blob/master/LICENSE">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg" alt="Medusa is released under the MIT license." />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat" alt="PRs welcome!" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://discord.gg/xpCwq3Kfn8">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20discord-7289DA.svg" alt="Discord Chat" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=medusajs">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/medusajs.svg?label=Follow%20@medusajs" alt="Follow @medusajs" />
  </a>
</p>

## Note

This plugin is still under development. Please report any issues or suggestions on the GitHub issues page.

## Quickstart

This takes you through the minimal steps to see your Medusa data in your Gatsby site's GraphiQL explorer.

### 1. Installation

Install the source plugin to your Gatsby project using your favorite package manager.

```shell
npm install gatsby-source-medusa
```

```shell
yarn add gatsby-source-medusa
```

### 2. Configuration

Add the plugin to your `gatsby-config.js`:

```js:title=gatsby-config.js
require("dotenv").config()

module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: "gatsby-source-medusa",
      options: {
        storeUrl: process.env.MEDUSA_URL,
        authToken: process.env.MEDUSA_AUTH_TOKEN //This is optional
      },
    },
    ...,
  ],
}
```

The plugin accepts two options `storeUrl` and `authToken`. The `storeUrl` option is required and should point to the server where your Medusa instance is hosted (this could be `localhost:9000` in development). The `authToken` option is optional, and if you add it the plugin will also source orders from your store.

## You should now be ready to begin querying your data

You should now be able to view your stores `MedusaProducts`, `MedusaRegions`, `MedusaCollections`, and `MedusaOrders` (if enabled) in your Gatsby site's GraphiQL explorer.

Commit message:

chore: added maintenance note to gatsby-source-medusa (#3759)

packages/gatsby-source-medusa/README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.medusajs.com">
    <img alt="Medusa" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7554214/129161578-19b83dc8-fac5-4520-bd48-53cba676edd2.png" width="100" />
  </a>
</p>
<h1 align="center">
  gatsby-source-medusa
</h1>
<p align="center">
Medusa is an open-source headless commerce engine that enables developers to create amazing digital commerce experiences. This is a Gatsby source plugin for building websites using Medusa as a data source.
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/blob/master/LICENSE">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg" alt="Medusa is released under the MIT license." />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat" alt="PRs welcome!" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://discord.gg/xpCwq3Kfn8">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20discord-7289DA.svg" alt="Discord Chat" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=medusajs">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/medusajs.svg?label=Follow%20@medusajs" alt="Follow @medusajs" />
  </a>
</p>

## Note

We're not actively maintaining this repository. So, it may not work as expected with the latest versions of Medusa. Contributions are highly appreciated.**

## Quickstart

This takes you through the minimal steps to see your Medusa data in your Gatsby site's GraphiQL explorer.

### 1. Installation

Install the source plugin to your Gatsby project using your favorite package manager.

```shell
npm install gatsby-source-medusa
```

```shell
yarn add gatsby-source-medusa
```

### 2. Configuration

Add the plugin to your `gatsby-config.js`:

```js:title=gatsby-config.js
require("dotenv").config()

module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: "gatsby-source-medusa",
      options: {
        storeUrl: process.env.MEDUSA_URL,
        authToken: process.env.MEDUSA_AUTH_TOKEN //This is optional
      },
    },
    ...,
  ],
}
```

The plugin accepts two options `storeUrl` and `authToken`. The `storeUrl` option is required and should point to the server where your Medusa instance is hosted (this could be `localhost:9000` in development). The `authToken` option is optional, and if you add it the plugin will also source orders from your store.

## You should now be ready to begin querying your data

You should now be able to view your stores `MedusaProducts`, `MedusaRegions`, `MedusaCollections`, and `MedusaOrders` (if enabled) in your Gatsby site's GraphiQL explorer.
