docs/content/user-guide/users/profile.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Manage Profile

In this document, you’ll learn how to manage your account including resetting your password and editing your account details.

## Reset Password

To reset your password:

1. On the login screen, click on the “Reset password” link.
2. Enter the email of your account.
3. Click on “Send reset instructions”.
4. You’ll find the instructions to reset your password in the email you receive.

:::note

If you don’t receive an email, please get in touch with your technical team to ensure an email service is set up correctly.

:::

---

## Edit Profile

To edit your profile details:

1. Go to Settings → Personal Information.
2. Click on the “Edit information” button.
3. In the form that opens, you can edit your personal information.
4. Once done, click on the “Submit and close” button.

---

## Edit Analytics Preferences

To edit your analytics collection preferences:

1. Go to Settings → Personal Information.
2. Click on the “Edit preferences” button.
3. In the form that opens, you can edit any of the options.
4. Once done, click on the “Submit and close” button.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/users/profile.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
description: 'This user guide explains how to manage user profile on the Medusa admin. Learn how to edit a user profile and reset user password.'
addHowToData: true
---

# Manage Profile

In this document, you’ll learn how to manage your account including resetting your password and editing your account details.

## Reset Password

To reset your password:

1. On the login screen, click on the “Reset password” link.
2. Enter the email of your account.
3. Click on “Send reset instructions”.
4. You’ll find the instructions to reset your password in the email you receive.

:::note

If you don’t receive an email, please get in touch with your technical team to ensure an email service is set up correctly.

:::

---

## Edit Profile

To edit your profile details:

1. Go to Settings → Personal Information.
2. Click on the “Edit information” button.
3. In the form that opens, you can edit your personal information.
4. Once done, click on the “Submit and close” button.

---

## Edit Analytics Preferences

To edit your analytics collection preferences:

1. Go to Settings → Personal Information.
2. Click on the “Edit preferences” button.
3. In the form that opens, you can edit any of the options.
4. Once done, click on the “Submit and close” button.
