docs/content/user-guide/customers/groups.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Customer Groups

In this document, you’ll learn how to manage customer groups, including customers in these groups.

## Create a Customer Group

To create a customer group:

1. Go to the Customers page.
2. Choose the Groups headline.
3. Click on the New Group button.
4. In the new window that opens:
    1. Enter a title for the group.
    2. Optionally, to add metadata:
        1. Click on the Add Metadata button.
        2. Enter a value for the Key and Value Fields.
        3. To remove a metadata field, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon.
5. Once you’re done, click on the Publish Group button.

---

## View Customer Group Details

To view the details of a customer group:

1. Go to the Customers page.
2. Choose the Groups headline.
3. Click on the name of the group you want to view.

---

## Edit a Customer Group

To edit a customer group:

1. Go to the customer group’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the right of the group’s name.
3. Click on Edit in the dropdown.
4. In the new window that opens:
    1. You can change the title and existing metadata of the group.
    2. To add metadata:
        1. Click on the Add Metadata button.
        2. Enter a value for the Key and Value Fields.
    3. To remove metadata click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon.
5. Once you’re done, click on the Edit Group button.

---

## Manage Customers in a Group

### View List of Customers in a Group

To view the list of customers in a customer group:

1. Go to the customer group’s details page.
2. Scroll to the Customers section. You’ll find all customers that belong to this customer group in this section if there are any.

### Add Customers to a Group

To add customers to a customer group:

1. Go to the customer group’s details page.
2. Click on the “Edit customers” button at the top right of the Customers section.
3. Check the box next to every customer you want to add to the group.
4. Click on the Save button.

### Remove a Customer from a Group

:::info

Removing customers from a customer group doesn't remove the customers from your store.

:::

To remove customers from a customer group:

1. Go to the customer group’s details page.
2. In the Customer section, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the customer you want to remove from the group.
3. Click on “Delete from the Group” from the dropdown.

### Remove Multiple Customers from a Group

:::info

Removing customers from a customer group doesn't remove the customers from your store.

:::

To remove more than one customer from a customer group at the same time:

1. Go to the customer group’s details page.
2. Click on the “Edit customers” button at the top right of the Customers section.
3. Uncheck the box next to every customer you want to remove from the group.
4. Click on the Save button.

---

## Delete Customer Group

:::warning

Deleting a customer group cannot be undone.

:::

To delete a customer group:

1. Go to the customer group’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the right of the group’s name.
3. Click on Delete from the dropdown.
4. Confirm deleting the price list by clicking the “Yes, delete” button in the pop-up.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/customers/groups.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
description: 'This user guide explains how to manage customer groups on the Medusa admin. Learn how to create and edit customer groups.'
addHowToData: true
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Customer Groups

In this document, you’ll learn how to manage customer groups, including customers in these groups.

## Create a Customer Group

To create a customer group:

1. Go to the Customers page.
2. Choose the Groups headline.
3. Click on the New Group button.
4. In the new window that opens:
    1. Enter a title for the group.
    2. Optionally, to add metadata:
        1. Click on the Add Metadata button.
        2. Enter a value for the Key and Value Fields.
        3. To remove a metadata field, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon.
5. Once you’re done, click on the Publish Group button.

---

## View Customer Group Details

To view the details of a customer group:

1. Go to the Customers page.
2. Choose the Groups headline.
3. Click on the name of the group you want to view.

---

## Edit a Customer Group

To edit a customer group:

1. Go to the customer group’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the right of the group’s name.
3. Click on Edit in the dropdown.
4. In the new window that opens:
    1. You can change the title and existing metadata of the group.
    2. To add metadata:
        1. Click on the Add Metadata button.
        2. Enter a value for the Key and Value Fields.
    3. To remove metadata click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon.
5. Once you’re done, click on the Edit Group button.

---

## Manage Customers in a Group

### View List of Customers in a Group

To view the list of customers in a customer group:

1. Go to the customer group’s details page.
2. Scroll to the Customers section. You’ll find all customers that belong to this customer group in this section if there are any.

### Add Customers to a Group

To add customers to a customer group:

1. Go to the customer group’s details page.
2. Click on the “Edit customers” button at the top right of the Customers section.
3. Check the box next to every customer you want to add to the group.
4. Click on the Save button.

### Remove a Customer from a Group

:::info

Removing customers from a customer group doesn't remove the customers from your store.

:::

To remove customers from a customer group:

1. Go to the customer group’s details page.
2. In the Customer section, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the customer you want to remove from the group.
3. Click on “Delete from the Group” from the dropdown.

### Remove Multiple Customers from a Group

:::info

Removing customers from a customer group doesn't remove the customers from your store.

:::

To remove more than one customer from a customer group at the same time:

1. Go to the customer group’s details page.
2. Click on the “Edit customers” button at the top right of the Customers section.
3. Uncheck the box next to every customer you want to remove from the group.
4. Click on the Save button.

---

## Delete Customer Group

:::warning

Deleting a customer group cannot be undone.

:::

To delete a customer group:

1. Go to the customer group’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the right of the group’s name.
3. Click on Delete from the dropdown.
4. Confirm deleting the price list by clicking the “Yes, delete” button in the pop-up.
