docs/content/user-guide/customers/manage.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Customers

In this document, you’ll learn how to manage customers and their details.

## View Customer Details

To view a customer’s details:

1. Go to the Customers page.
2. Click on the customer you want to view.

---

## Edit Customer Details

To edit a customer’s details:

1. Go to a Customer’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon in the first section.
3. Choose Edit from the dropdown.
4. In the new window that opens, you can edit the customer’s details.
5. Once you’re done, click on the Save button.

---

## View Customer Orders

To view the orders of a customer:

1. Go to a Customer’s details page.
2. Scroll to the Orders section. You’ll fine the customer’s orders and you can click on an order to view it.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/customers/manage.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
description: 'This user guide explains how to manage customers on the Medusa admin. Learn how to view and edit customers.'
addHowToData: true
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Customers

In this document, you’ll learn how to manage customers and their details.

## View Customer Details

To view a customer’s details:

1. Go to the Customers page.
2. Click on the customer you want to view.

---

## Edit Customer Details

To edit a customer’s details:

1. Go to a Customer’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon in the first section.
3. Choose Edit from the dropdown.
4. In the new window that opens, you can edit the customer’s details.
5. Once you’re done, click on the Save button.

---

## View Customer Orders

To view the orders of a customer:

1. Go to a Customer’s details page.
2. Scroll to the Orders section. You’ll fine the customer’s orders and you can click on an order to view it.
