docs/content/user-guide/orders/fulfillments.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Manage Fulfillments
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Order's Fulfillments

In this tutorial, you’ll learn about order fulfillments and how to manage them, including how to create fulfillments and mark them as shipped.

## Overview

When a customer places an order, the fulfillment status of the order will be “not_shipped”. You can then create fulfillments and mark them as shipped once you ship the items.

You can create more than one fulfillment, with each fulfillment used for at least one item in the order.

If some items of the order are fulfilled, the order’s fulfillment status will be “partially_shipped”. Once all items are shipped, the order’s fulfillment status will be “shipped”.

---

## Create Fulfillment

:::info

You can only create a fulfillment in an order while there are items in the order that haven’t been shipped.

:::

To create a fulfillment for an order:

1. Open the order details page.
2. Scroll down to the Fulfillment section.
3. Click on the Create Fulfillment button.
4. In the window that opens:
    - Choose the items you want to create the fulfillment for. These are the items you’ll ship together. You can also choose a specific quantity of an item to ship using the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999131/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1hL8NiW_lqmjcq.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999150/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/8LtkPqW_jyqz5i.png" alt="plus" /> and <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999351/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/EGk9uYD_a7rwhs.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999366/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/XvkBK8p_dzhzfx.png" alt="minus" /> icons under the Quantity column.
    - Optionally enter any additional information you want to associate with the fulfillment under the Metadata section.
    - If you don’t want the customer to receive an email that a fulfillment has been created, uncheck the “Send notifications” checkbox.
5. Once done, click on the Complete button.

You can check the fulfillment details in the Fulfillment and Timeline sections.

---

## Mark a Fulfillment Shipped

:::caution

Once a fulfillment is marked as shipped, it can’t be reverted. You must [create a fulfillment](#create-fulfillment) first before you can mark it as shipped.

:::

To mark a fulfillment as shipped in an order:

1. Open the order details page.
2. Scroll down to the Fulfillment section.
3. Find the fulfillment you want to mark as shipped, then click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to it.
4. Click on Mark Shipped in the dropdown.
5. In the new window that opens:
    - Enter a tracking number for the shipment.
    - If you have more than one tracking number, click on the “Add Additional Tracking Number” to add more numbers.
    - If you don’t want the customer to receive an email that the fulfillment has been shipped, uncheck the “Send notifications” checkbox.
6. Once you’re done, click the Complete button.

Shipment details can be seen in the Timeline section.

---

## Cancel a Fulfillment

:::caution

If you cancel a fulfillment, it can’t be reverted. Only a fulfillment that hasn’t been marked as shipped can be canceled.

:::

To cancel a fulfillment in an order:

1. Open the order details page.
2. Scroll down to the Fulfillment section.
3. Find the fulfillment you want to cancel, then click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to it.
4. Click on Cancel Fulfillment in the dropdown.
5. Confirm canceling the fulfillment by clicking the “Yes, confirm” button in the pop-up.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/orders/fulfillments.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Manage Fulfillments
description: 'This user guide explains how to manage order fulfillments in the Medusa Admin. Learn how to create fulfillments, mark fulfillments as shipped, and cancel fulfillments.'
addHowToData: true
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Order's Fulfillments

In this tutorial, you’ll learn about order fulfillments and how to manage them, including how to create fulfillments and mark them as shipped.

## Overview

When a customer places an order, the fulfillment status of the order will be “not_shipped”. You can then create fulfillments and mark them as shipped once you ship the items.

You can create more than one fulfillment, with each fulfillment used for at least one item in the order.

If some items of the order are fulfilled, the order’s fulfillment status will be “partially_shipped”. Once all items are shipped, the order’s fulfillment status will be “shipped”.

---

## Create Fulfillment

:::info

You can only create a fulfillment in an order while there are items in the order that haven’t been shipped.

:::

To create a fulfillment for an order:

1. Open the order details page.
2. Scroll down to the Fulfillment section.
3. Click on the Create Fulfillment button.
4. In the window that opens:
    - Choose the items you want to create the fulfillment for. These are the items you’ll ship together. You can also choose a specific quantity of an item to ship using the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999131/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1hL8NiW_lqmjcq.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999150/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/8LtkPqW_jyqz5i.png" alt="plus" /> and <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999351/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/EGk9uYD_a7rwhs.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999366/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/XvkBK8p_dzhzfx.png" alt="minus" /> icons under the Quantity column.
    - Optionally enter any additional information you want to associate with the fulfillment under the Metadata section.
    - If you don’t want the customer to receive an email that a fulfillment has been created, uncheck the “Send notifications” checkbox.
5. Once done, click on the Complete button.

You can check the fulfillment details in the Fulfillment and Timeline sections.

---

## Mark a Fulfillment Shipped

:::caution

Once a fulfillment is marked as shipped, it can’t be reverted. You must [create a fulfillment](#create-fulfillment) first before you can mark it as shipped.

:::

To mark a fulfillment as shipped in an order:

1. Open the order details page.
2. Scroll down to the Fulfillment section.
3. Find the fulfillment you want to mark as shipped, then click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to it.
4. Click on Mark Shipped in the dropdown.
5. In the new window that opens:
    - Enter a tracking number for the shipment.
    - If you have more than one tracking number, click on the “Add Additional Tracking Number” to add more numbers.
    - If you don’t want the customer to receive an email that the fulfillment has been shipped, uncheck the “Send notifications” checkbox.
6. Once you’re done, click the Complete button.

Shipment details can be seen in the Timeline section.

---

## Cancel a Fulfillment

:::caution

If you cancel a fulfillment, it can’t be reverted. Only a fulfillment that hasn’t been marked as shipped can be canceled.

:::

To cancel a fulfillment in an order:

1. Open the order details page.
2. Scroll down to the Fulfillment section.
3. Find the fulfillment you want to cancel, then click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to it.
4. Click on Cancel Fulfillment in the dropdown.
5. Confirm canceling the fulfillment by clicking the “Yes, confirm” button in the pop-up.
