docs/content/user-guide/settings/currencies.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Manage Currencies

In this document, you’ll learn how to set the default currency in your store and how to support more currencies.

## Overview

Medusa supports using more than one currency in your store. When you add currencies, you can set prices for products for each of those currencies.

To make a currency available for your customers, you have to use the currency in a region. Then, your customers will be able to choose the region with the currency that fits them.

:::tip

Before you can use a currency in a region, make sure to [add it to your store](#add-a-currency).

:::

---

## Add a Currency

To make a currency available in your store:

1. Go to Settings → Currencies.
2. Click on the “Edit currencies” button in the Store Currencies section.
3. In the new window that opens:
    1. Click on the Add Currencies button.
    2. Select all the currencies you want to add.
4. Click on the “Save and close” button.

---

## Set Default Currency

:::tip

Before you can make a currency the default currency, make sure to [add it to your store](#add-a-currency).

:::

To set the default currency of your store:

1. Go to Settings → Currencies.
2. In the "Default store currency” section, choose from the dropdown the currency you want to make the default.

---

## Remove Currencies

To remove a currency from your store:

1. Go to Settings → Currencies.
2. Click on the “Edit currencies” button in the Store Currencies section.
3. In the new window that opens:
    1. Select all the currencies you want to remove.
    2. Click on the Remove button.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/settings/currencies.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
description: 'This user guide explains how to manage currencies on the Medusa admin. Learn how to add currencies and set default currency.'
addHowToData: true
---

# Manage Currencies

In this document, you’ll learn how to set the default currency in your store and how to support more currencies.

## Overview

Medusa supports using more than one currency in your store. When you add currencies, you can set prices for products for each of those currencies.

To make a currency available for your customers, you have to use the currency in a region. Then, your customers will be able to choose the region with the currency that fits them.

:::tip

Before you can use a currency in a region, make sure to [add it to your store](#add-a-currency).

:::

---

## Add a Currency

To make a currency available in your store:

1. Go to Settings → Currencies.
2. Click on the “Edit currencies” button in the Store Currencies section.
3. In the new window that opens:
    1. Click on the Add Currencies button.
    2. Select all the currencies you want to add.
4. Click on the “Save and close” button.

---

## Set Default Currency

:::tip

Before you can make a currency the default currency, make sure to [add it to your store](#add-a-currency).

:::

To set the default currency of your store:

1. Go to Settings → Currencies.
2. In the "Default store currency” section, choose from the dropdown the currency you want to make the default.

---

## Remove Currencies

To remove a currency from your store:

1. Go to Settings → Currencies.
2. Click on the “Edit currencies” button in the Store Currencies section.
3. In the new window that opens:
    1. Select all the currencies you want to remove.
    2. Click on the Remove button.
