docs/content/user-guide/gift-cards/custom.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Custom Gift Cards

In this document, you’ll learn how to manage custom gift cards, including how to create and update them.

## Create Custom Gift Card

To create a custom gift card:

1. Go to Gift Cards from the sidebar.
2. Click on the Custom Gift Card button at the top right of the History section.
3. In the new form that opens:
    1. Select in the Region field the region this gift card works in. You can only pick one region. Based on the region you pick, the currency of the gift card will automatically change.
    2. Enter in the Amount field the amount of the gift card.
    3. Enter in the Email field the email of the customer that will receive this gift card.
    4. You can optionally enter in the Personal Message field any message you want the customer to receive with this gift card.
4. Once done, click on Create & Send.

The gift card will be created with a random code. The customer will then receive an email with details about their gift card.

:::note

If the customer doesn’t receive an email, please get in touch with your technical team to ensure an email service is set up correctly.

:::

---

## View a Custom Gift Card’s Details

To view a custom gift card’s details:

1. Go to Gift Cards from the sidebar.
2. In the History section, find the custom gift card and click on it.

This opens the gift card’s details page.

---

## Edit a Custom Gift Card

### Change Region of Custom Gift Card

:::info

Changing the region of a custom gift card will change the currency of the gift card to the new region’s currency.

:::

To change the region of a custom gift card:

1. Go to the custom gift card’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the first section.
3. Click on Edit from the dropdown.
4. In the new window that opens:
    1. Select in the Region field the region you want this gift card to work in.
5. Once done, click on the Save button.

### Update Balance of Custom Gift Card

To update the balance of a custom gift card:

1. Go to the custom gift card’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the first section.
3. Click on “Update balance” from the dropdown.
4. In the new window that opens:
    1. Enter in the Price field the new balance.
5. Once done, click on the Save button.

### Change Custom Gift Card Status

You can disable or activate a custom gift card. If you disable a gift card, customers can’t use it during checkout.

To change a custom gift card’s status:

1. Go to the custom gift card’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the first section.
3. Click on Disable or Activate from the dropdown based on the current status.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/gift-cards/custom.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
description: 'This user guide explains how to manage custom gift cards on the Medusa admin. Learn how to create and edit custom gift cards.'
addHowToData: true
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Custom Gift Cards

In this document, you’ll learn how to manage custom gift cards, including how to create and update them.

## Create Custom Gift Card

To create a custom gift card:

1. Go to Gift Cards from the sidebar.
2. Click on the Custom Gift Card button at the top right of the History section.
3. In the new form that opens:
    1. Select in the Region field the region this gift card works in. You can only pick one region. Based on the region you pick, the currency of the gift card will automatically change.
    2. Enter in the Amount field the amount of the gift card.
    3. Enter in the Email field the email of the customer that will receive this gift card.
    4. You can optionally enter in the Personal Message field any message you want the customer to receive with this gift card.
4. Once done, click on Create & Send.

The gift card will be created with a random code. The customer will then receive an email with details about their gift card.

:::note

If the customer doesn’t receive an email, please get in touch with your technical team to ensure an email service is set up correctly.

:::

---

## View a Custom Gift Card’s Details

To view a custom gift card’s details:

1. Go to Gift Cards from the sidebar.
2. In the History section, find the custom gift card and click on it.

This opens the gift card’s details page.

---

## Edit a Custom Gift Card

### Change Region of Custom Gift Card

:::info

Changing the region of a custom gift card will change the currency of the gift card to the new region’s currency.

:::

To change the region of a custom gift card:

1. Go to the custom gift card’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the first section.
3. Click on Edit from the dropdown.
4. In the new window that opens:
    1. Select in the Region field the region you want this gift card to work in.
5. Once done, click on the Save button.

### Update Balance of Custom Gift Card

To update the balance of a custom gift card:

1. Go to the custom gift card’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the first section.
3. Click on “Update balance” from the dropdown.
4. In the new window that opens:
    1. Enter in the Price field the new balance.
5. Once done, click on the Save button.

### Change Custom Gift Card Status

You can disable or activate a custom gift card. If you disable a gift card, customers can’t use it during checkout.

To change a custom gift card’s status:

1. Go to the custom gift card’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the first section.
3. Click on Disable or Activate from the dropdown based on the current status.
