docs/content/user-guide/regions/manage.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Regions

In this document, you’ll learn how to view and manage regions in your Medusa Admin.

## View Regions

To view your regions:

1. Click on Settings in the sidebar.
2. Choose Regions from the list of settings.

This opens the Regions page where you can find a list of regions.

---

## Create a Region

To create a region:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999131/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1hL8NiW_lqmjcq.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999150/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/8LtkPqW_jyqz5i.png" alt="plus" /> icon at the top right of the Regions section.
3. In the form that opens you must enter the Regions details:
    - It is required to enter a title, choose a currency, enter a tax rate, and at least choose one country, payment provider, and fulfillment provider.
    - You can optionally enter a tax code for the region. Alternatively, you can [edit a region’s tax settings](../taxes/manage.md#edit-a-regions-taxes) after creation.
4. Once you’re done, click on the "Create region" button.

:::tip

If you can’t find the currency you want to use in the Currency field, make sure to add the Currency to the store’s currencies in the settings.

:::

After you click save, the region will be created and you can see it in the list on the left.

---

## Edit a Region

To edit a region's basic information:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Click on the region you want to edit from the Regions section. This shows sections to the right to edit different information and data related to the region.
4. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the first region.
5. This opens a new window where you can edit the region's details.
6. Once done, click on the "Save and close" button.

---

## Delete a Region

:::warning

If you delete a region, you will not be able to restore it or its data. Data related to the region such as tax settings will also be deleted. Prices using the currencies of this region will remain available.

:::

To delete a region:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Click on the region you want to duplicate from the Regions section.
3. In the first section on the right, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
4. Choose Delete Region from the dropdown list.
5. Confirm deleting the region by clicking the “Yes, confirm" button in the pop-up.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/regions/manage.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
description: 'This user guide explains how to manage regions on the Medusa admin. Learn how to create and edit regions.'
addHowToData: true
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Regions

In this document, you’ll learn how to view and manage regions in your Medusa Admin.

## View Regions

To view your regions:

1. Click on Settings in the sidebar.
2. Choose Regions from the list of settings.

This opens the Regions page where you can find a list of regions.

---

## Create a Region

To create a region:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999131/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1hL8NiW_lqmjcq.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999150/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/8LtkPqW_jyqz5i.png" alt="plus" /> icon at the top right of the Regions section.
3. In the form that opens you must enter the Regions details:
    - It is required to enter a title, choose a currency, enter a tax rate, and at least choose one country, payment provider, and fulfillment provider.
    - You can optionally enter a tax code for the region. Alternatively, you can [edit a region’s tax settings](../taxes/manage.md#edit-a-regions-taxes) after creation.
4. Once you’re done, click on the "Create region" button.

:::tip

If you can’t find the currency you want to use in the Currency field, make sure to add the Currency to the store’s currencies in the settings.

:::

After you click save, the region will be created and you can see it in the list on the left.

---

## Edit a Region

To edit a region's basic information:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Click on the region you want to edit from the Regions section. This shows sections to the right to edit different information and data related to the region.
4. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the first region.
5. This opens a new window where you can edit the region's details.
6. Once done, click on the "Save and close" button.

---

## Delete a Region

:::warning

If you delete a region, you will not be able to restore it or its data. Data related to the region such as tax settings will also be deleted. Prices using the currencies of this region will remain available.

:::

To delete a region:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Click on the region you want to duplicate from the Regions section.
3. In the first section on the right, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
4. Choose Delete Region from the dropdown list.
5. Confirm deleting the region by clicking the “Yes, confirm" button in the pop-up.
